Approved Semiconductor Manufacturing Projects
1. Micron Technology Inc. is establishing semiconductor manufacturing facility in Gujarat with
an investment of Rs.22,516 crore. Micron’s facility in India will enable assembly and test
manufacturing for both DRAM and NAND products and address demand from domestic and
international markets. The production capacity is around 14 million units per week.
2. Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL) is establishing semiconductor manufacturing
facility in Gujarat with an investment of Rs. 91,526 crore. The fab facility will be set up in
technology partnership with PSMC, Taiwan. The production capacity of the project would be
around 50,000 wafer starts per month (WSPM).
3. Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL) is establishing semiconductor manufacturing
facility in Assam with an investment of Rs.27,120 crores. The facility will use indigenous
semiconductor packaging technologies with a production capacity of 48 million units per day.
4. CG Power and Industrial Solutions Limited is establishing semiconductor manufacturing
facility in Gujarat with an investment of Rs. 7,584 crore. The facility will be set up as a joint
venture partnership with Renesas Electronics America Inc., USA, and STARS Microelectronic,
Thailand.
5. Kaynes Technology India Limited (KTIL) is establishing semiconductor manufacturing
facility in Gujarat with an investment of Rs. 3,307 crores. The facility will have the capacity to
produce more than 6.33 million chips per day.
6. Vama Sundari Investments (Delhi) Private Limited (VSIPL) is establishing semiconductor
manufacturing facility in Uttar Pradesh with an investment of Rs 3,706 crores. The production
capacity would be around 20K wafers per month/36 million chips per month.
7. 3D Glass Solutions Inc. (3DGS) is establishing semiconductor manufacturing facility in Odisha
with an investment of Rs. 1,943 crores. The Proposed installed capacity for glass panel substrate
production, assembly and Heterogeneous Integration (3DHI) is around 5800 panels per month,
4.20 million units per month, and 1100 units per months respectively.
8. SiCSem Private Limited is establishing semiconductor manufacturing facility in Odisha with
an investment of Rs. 2,066 crores. The production capacity is 5,000 wafers/month, and the
packaging capacity is 8 million units/month.
9. Continental Device India Private Limited (CDIL) is expanding its semiconductor
manufacturing facility in Punjab, with an investment of Rs. 117 crores. The facility will
manufacture high-power discrete semiconductor devices. The production capacity will be
around 158.38 million units/annum
10. Advanced System in Package Technologies Private Limited (ASIP) is establishing
semiconductor manufacturing facility in Andhra Pradesh, with an investment of Rs. 480 crores.
The production capacity of the facility would be around 96 million units/annum.