Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
220
•	
Developed the first indigenous Train Communication Network (TCN) based Multifunction Vehicle Bus (MVB) 
controller for locomotives, establishing an open-architecture technology for the Vehicle Control Unit (VCU) in 
Indian three-phase locomotives WAG9, WAP7 and WAP5. 
•	
Implemented Microgrid Innovation for Energy Efficiency- Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council 
(KDISC) 5 storied building, the first commercial building operating on Solar PV powered 48V DC distribution.  
•	
Developed First indigenous Power system real time simulator and deployed at IISc.
•	
Developed first indigenous Technology for Planar inductor and Transformer.
•	
Model EV Charging Station setup at C-DAC Trivandrum campus- equipped with comprehensive solution for EV 
public Charging technologies developed under NaMPET, including 7kW & 22kW AC fast charger, 15kW &50kW 
DC fast Chargers with SiC, Metering and user interfaces. 
•	
Developed Integrated drive for BLDC mor for EV applications - Compact low power drive for BLDC motor 
integration EVIDs.
•	
Developed First Indigenous Electrical system emulator - Indigenous design of battery emulation @15kW. 
These technologies are available for technology transfer at different TRL levels. 
Major impact of NaMPET created technology base in the country:  In a major initiative for technology development in 
Locomotive propulsion, Indian Railways has signed MoU with C-DAC in March2025 for 5Megawatt 3 Phase propulsion 
system with active participation of 3 Industries. This is the largest ever Power Electronics system development initiated 
by C-DAC in capacity wise. 
9.1.2.2	 Chips to Startup (C2S)
Details may be seen at Chapter 7.
9.1.2.3	 Design Linked Incentive (DLI)
The Design Linked Incentive (DLI) Scheme aims to provide financial incentives as well as design infrastructure support 
across various stages of development and deployment of semiconductor design for Integrated Circuits (ICs), Chipsets, 
System on Chips (SoCs), Systems & IP Cores and semiconductor linked design  with an aim to achieving significant 
indigenization in semiconductor and electronic products and IPs deployed in the country, thereby facilitating import 
substitution and value addition in electronics sector in the next 5 years. 
As on September 18, 2025, total of 115 applications were received for financial support and 23 are approved for financial 
support. A total of 81 applications were received for EDA tool support and 74 are approved for EDA tool support.
Details may be seen at Chapter 5.
9.1.2.4	 IndiaAI Datalab at C-DAC Mohali – Soft Launch
As a part of India-AI Mission, Hon’ble Minister of Electronics & IT, 
Shri. Ashwini Vaishnaw, launched 30 IndiaAI Datalabs nationwide, 
including the one at C-DAC Mohali which is established in 
collaboration with Intel Corporation India during the curtain raiser 
event of the AI Impact Summit 2026.
At C-DAC Mohali, the focus is on driving pioneering AI research 
and delivering scalable, real-world solutions across domains such 
as Cybersecurity, Applied Ethics, Healthcare, and Industry 4.0. In 
