Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
311
9.10	 Digital India Corporation (DIC)
9.10.1 Introduction
Digital India Corporation (DIC) is a not-for-profit company set up & promoted by the Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India. The Company leads & guides in realising the vision, objectives and goals of the 
Digital India program. It provides strategic support to Ministries / Departments of Centre / States to carry forward the 
mission of Digital India by way of capacity building for e-Governance projects, promoting best practices, encouraging 
Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), nurturing innovations and technologies in various domains.
The company encompasses 7 Independent Business Divisions (IBDs) viz. KIDIC Core or Technology Development 
& Deployment Division (TDDD), NeGD (National e-Governance Division), MyGov, MeitY Startup Hub (MSH), India 
Semiconductor Mission (ISM), Digital India Bhashini Division (DIBD) and INDIAai.
9.10.2 DIC Core or Technology Development & Deployment Division 
9.10.2.1 Poshan Tracker
‘Poshan Tracker’ is a mobile-based application for dynamic identification of stunting, wasting, and under-weight 
prevalence among children and last-mile tracking of nutrition service delivery by Anganwadi Workers at Anganwadi 
centres. The application has further been made available to State Officials with the integration of the Supportive 
Supervision Application and also to beneficiaries through the new Beneficiary interface.
The work undertaken in the area of Process Re-engineering for Digital Transformation:
A.	
Face Capture and Authentication in SNP distribution: The Poshan Tracker is equipped with the new face 
capture and authentication feature to ensure that nutritional services are provided to genuine beneficiaries. The 
implementation of the feature in the Poshan Tracker is a significant step towards ensuring transparency and 
accountability in the distribution of services, ultimately leading to better nutrition outcomes for the target groups.
B.	
Beneficiary e-KYC allows Anganwadi Workers (AWW) to complete the e-KYC (electronic Know Your Customer) 
process for beneficiaries. This feature aims to streamline the verification process and ensure that benefits are 
delivered efficiently and accurately. It makes it simple for AWWs to verify beneficiaries’ identities using electronic 
methods, ensuring accurate and up-to-date records, faster access to benefits, and a secure and reliable process. 
C.	
Keycloak Module has been implemented to make logging into the Poshan Tracker easier and safer. Keycloak 
is used to provide a login facility for the application. Roles are managed on Keycloak and based on role user 
can switch their application behaviour. One can use multiple applications to login via Keycloak with the same 
user credentials. It makes the app more secure, preventing unauthorized access and keeping user data safe. 
Additionally, Keycloak has also been implemented in the Supportive Supervision application for State Officials.
D.	
A beneficiary interface has been provided in the Poshan Tracker application to enable the beneficiaries (users) 
to register themselves directly on the app.
•	
Self-Registration Made Simple: This minimizes the dependency on Anganwadi Workers for manual registration.
• 
Approval by Anganwadi Workers: Once a beneficiary registers, the request is sent to the Anganwadi worker, to 
verify and approve the registration. 
• 
Access to Personal Information and Services: Beneficiaries can view their service history, which includes 
information about the child’s health and development, like height and weight tracking and details about the 
nutritional support they received, based on their eligibility or category
