Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
90
Fab and Semiconductor Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging (ATMP) / Outsourced Semiconductor 
Assembly and Test (OSAT) facilities in India. 
iv.	
Product Design Linked Incentive (DLI) of up to 50% of the eligible expenditure subject to a ceiling of `15 Crore 
per application and also “Deployment Linked Incentive” of 6% to 4% of net sales turnover over 5 years subject to 
a ceiling of `30 Crore per application for incentivizing chip design
Government has also approved the modernization of Semi-Conductor Laboratory, Mohali under the Programme.
3.3.9.1	 India Semiconductor Mission (ISM):
India Semiconductor Mission (ISM) as an Independent Business Division under the Digital India Corporation, has been 
nurturing India’s strategies for developing Semiconductors and display ecosystem focussed on the objectives namely-
• 
Promoting development of indigenous products/ technologies via suitable mechanisms/ infrastructure facilities  
• 
Enabling cutting-edge research and development and curating pool of skilled manpower.
• 
Encouraging technology transfer by networking/ partnerships with national and international entities.
• 
Assisting in obtaining monetary support through requisite fund mechanisms/ grants schemes, etc. 
• 
Facilitating adoption of secure microelectronics and developing a trusted semiconductor supply chain.
3.3.9.2 Modernization of Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL), Mohali
The Union Cabinet has also approved that Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology will take requisite steps 
for modernization and commercialization of Semi-conductor Laboratory (SCL), Mohali. Semi-conductor Laboratory 
(SCL), Mohali has been brought under the administrative control of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology 
from Department of Space 
SCL is an Integrated Device Manufacturer which undertakes activities pertaining to design, development, fabrication, 
assembly & packaging, testing and quality assurance of Silicon CMOS and MEMS Devices for various applications. 
Presently, SCL has two wafer fabrication lines, i.e., 200 mm wafer line operating in 180nm CMOS technology and 150 
mm wafer line for MEMS technology. SCL predominantly caters to low volume requirements for various applications.
Boston Consulting Group (BCG) has been engaged to provide consultancy services for the Modernization of Semi-
Conductor Laboratory, Mohali. 
The primary focus of the modernization of SCL is the 8-inch 180nm CMOS fab-line with the following outlined objectives:
(i)	
Augment the capacity of the line to at least 1500 WSPM, build redundancy and improve operational performance
(ii)	
Enhance technological capability to support broader needs of government, academia and industry
(iii)	 Ensure operational continuity and improved customer commitment.
As part of its modernization, SCL published RFP and invited proposals to upgrade its chip manufacturing facilities. 
Through this RFP, SCL intends to engage experienced Contractor(s) for augmentation and enhancement of the existing 
8-inch fab-line. The technical evaluation and financial evaluations of the bids received have been completed, and the 
results have been published on the SCL website.
3.3.9.3 Approvals issued under the programme:
• 
Micron Technology Inc.’s proposal for setting up an ATMP facility in Gujarat with an investment of ` 22,516 crore 
was approved in June 2023. Micron’s facility in India will enable assembly and test manufacturing for both DRAM 
and NAND products and address demand from domestic and international markets. The production capacity is 
around 14 million units per week. 
