Skill India:
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
204
Since 2007-08, the National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT) is implementing the “Fee 
Reimbursement to SC/ST” programme. The aforesaid programme is a DBT on-boarded scheme in which free training is 
being provided to the SC/ST candidates in various formal, non- formal, and IT literacy courses pat NIELIT’s own centres 
under budgetary support of MeitY. 
During the FY 2024-25, a total of 3667 Scheduled Caste and 19495 Scheduled Tribe Candidates benefitted under the 
Fee reimbursement programme.
During the FY 2025-26 (1st lot) covering the period, April-September 2025, a total of 3001 Scheduled Caste and 11926 
Scheduled Tribe Candidates benefitted under the Fee reimbursement programme.
7.8	
E-Learning Platform
7.8.1	 Development of EdTech Platform in the Semiconductor Space to Democratize Chip Design and 
Development Ecosystem for the Masses:
MeitY has approved the project titled “Development of EdTech Platform in the Semiconductor Space to Democratize 
Chip Design and Development Ecosystem for the Masses” to be implemented by NIELIT Headquarters over a period 
of three years. The project aims to develop high-quality audio-visual content for both basic and advanced skills in chip 
design including physical design, RTL design, design for test, Analog design, and verification entirely using open-
source technologies, with rich lectures, demonstrations, and labs to simplify complex concepts. It also seeks to build an 
indigenous open-source platform offering advanced EDA design lows supporting all major chip design verticals such as 
PDK development, RTL design/integration, synthesis, placement and routing, static timing analysis, logical equivalence 
checking, power estimation, DFT implementation, ATPG, Analog IP design, digital verification, and Analog/mixed-
signal design and verification. The platform will enable low-cost IC design, support development of open-source IPs 
and SoCs at scale, lower entry barriers for students and entrepreneurs, and offer lifetime access for users to practice 
and strengthen their chip design skills. Additionally, the project will establish vertical-wise vibrant learning communities 
moderated by expert mentors to foster collaborative learning and innovation.
By December 2025, two course curricula have been designed and formally approved by the Syllabus Committee of 
NIELIT: (a) Chip Craft: RTL, IP Integration, and SoC Signoff, and (b) Bootcamp on VLSI Design using Open-Source 
Tools. Video content is currently under development for both courses, alongside the preparation of corresponding 
lab exercises to support hands-on learning. Cloud services for the edtech portal have been procured, and a virtual 
lab leveraging open-source tools is being developed. The virtual lab is already functional on the cloud platform, with 
ongoing upgrades to the toolset. Additionally, a Learning Management System (LMS) is being developed to facilitate 
access to both the course content and the virtual lab.
7.8.2	 OLabs NextG (OLabs Next Generation):
MeitY has approved the project titled “OLabs NextG: Next Generation Online Labs (OLabs) for schools” which is being 
implemented by CDAC, Mumbai jointly with Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Kerala. OLabs portal (http://www.olabs.
edu.in) is a resource point for access to online labs that cover all experiments as per the CBSE curriculum for Physics, 
Chemistry, Biology, Science and also activities under Maths, Social Science, Computer Science, EDP, and Languages 
(English. Hindi, and Sanskrit). 173 labs Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Maths are available in regional languages 
Hindi, Marathi, Malayalam, etc. OLabs NextG (OLabs Next Generation) which is aligned with the New Education Policy 
2020 has been approved and jointly funded by MeitY and the Ministry of Education (MoE).
By December 2025, a total of 423 virtual labs covering Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Science, Mathematics, Social 
Science, Computer Science, and Languages (English, Hindi, and Sanskrit) for classes 6 to 12 have been developed 
and made available on the OLabs website (olabs.edu.in). Out of these, 212 OLabs are also accessible through the 
