Other Matters
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
338
citizen-engagement   
10.5 	Information & Documentation Centre (Library)
This Ministry has a spacious well-planned Library viz Information and Documentation Centre (I&DC), with an inventory 
of books, journals, magazines, annual reports and newspapers. It uses RFID based Library Management System 
to manage acquisition, cataloguing and circulation, of books/journals/magazines. I&DC also provides various other 
services like Inter-Library loan facility to the officials of the Ministry through DELNET (Developing Library Network) and 
arranges books/journals/magazines/articles from libraries of various other organizations. Services are also provided to 
the retired officials of the Ministry and trainees who undertake projects in the Ministry.
The Information & Documentation Centre possesses approximately 20,889/- books on various subject including 
Electronics, Computer, IT, Computer Languages, Fiction, Artificial Intelligence & Cyber Security. I&DC has books on 
Hindi and English literature also. I&DC procures on an average 17 books and approximately 34 Journals (Print) per 
annum and Skillsoft E-books services (Book 24x7) is also made available to the authorized users.
The Ministry is spearheading an Intra-Ministerial initiative viz the Library Consortium, Ministry of Electronics & Information 
Technology (MCIT). Consortium of the Ministry (MCIT Consortium) comprises the users from the National Informatics 
Centre (NIC), C-DAC, NIELIT, SAMEER, C-MET, STQC Directorate, STPI, ERNET India, C-DOT. The Ministry provides 
on-line access to various e-resources i.e. IEEE Journals/Transactions/Proceedings, IEE Journals/Proceedings, ACM 
Digital Library and ISO Standards to its users through MCIT Library Consortium. I&DC also provides journals/magazines/
articles of 30 international publishers through ONOS platform.
I&DC provides Gartner Research and Advisory Services which is useful e-resource consists of reliable global trends & 
best practices and latest reports on digital technologies.
I&DC also provides “Bloomberg Terminal Services”. The Bloomberg Terminal service is a global, 24-hour a day, 
financial information network providing real-time and historical pricing, indicative and fundamental data, and customized 
analytics. Other features include on-demand print and multimedia news and research, extensive electronic-trading 
capabilities, and a superior communications platform.
10.6	 Parliament Section
In the Year 2025 the Budget Session, Monsoon Session and Winter Session of the Parliament  has been  held. During 
these Sessions 238 number of Parliament Questions in Lok Sabha (14 Starred & 224 Unstarred) and 157 number of 
Parliament Questions in Rajya Sabha (17 Starred & 140 Unstarred) were admitted and handled by the Parliament 
Section. These were mainly related to Development of IT Hub, Financial Cyber Crime, Cert-In, Development of Additive 
Manufacturing (3D Printing) in India, National Knowledge Network(NKN), Global Outage, Incentive for Semiconductor 
and display ecosystem, Digital India Bill, Uniform Fiscal Support, Robotic Process Automation Lab, Grievance Redressal 
By Social Media Intermediaries, Visveswaraya Ph.D. Scheme, Development of Metaverse, Big Tech companies, 
Digital Public Infrastructure and AI, PMGDISHA, Electronic Manufacturing Companies, Research and Development, 
Online Gamers, Cyber Security Incidents, Progress of Digital India Programme, Future Skills Prime Programme, Digital 
copyright infringement by online chatbots, Leakage of personal data on Dark Web, Manufacturing of Mobile Phone, 
Implementation of Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, TIDE 2.0 scheme, Electricity supply to data centres, Tariff 
rationalisation for smart phone manufacturing, Action against Data Breaches, Semiconductor Industry, Technological 
expertise for blockchain effectiveness for MSMEs, Digital Personal Data Protection Act (DPDPA), Legislation/Rules for 
Online Gaming and Online Gambling, Adoption and Development of Artificial   Intelligence under PPP Model, Amendment 
in IT Act to regulate AI, Support to Tech-Startup, Semiconductor chip fabrication, Digital Literacy and Skill Development, 
Greenfield Semiconductor Fab, Personal Data Mining and PhishingIt, Deepfake, Digital Public Infrastructure, Scheme 
