Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
83
Industrial electronics is an empirical barometer of overall growth in the contribution of the manufacturing sector 
in the economy. The spurt in investments due to the “Make in India” programme is bringing significant interest in 
engineering, electrical, automotive and electronics segments which are the driving force behind the growth of industrial 
electronics  sector. In future, M2M (machine-to-machine and machine-to-man) communication modules driven by 
Industry 4.0 activities will determine the growth of the Industrial electronic segment.
3.2.6	 Automotive Electronics 
Automotive electronics are electrically operated systems integrated and mounted in several vehicle applications such 
as body electronics, safety systems, and infotainment. The automotive market demand is experiencing trends related 
to advanced mobility solutions, powertrain & vehicle system electrification, and advanced safety systems. Due to the 
increased implementation of these systems in vehicles, the penetration of automotive electronics has also increased, 
further creating the demand for automotive electronics products across the globe. The digitization of automotive systems 
by including connected technologies, in-vehicle communication, and ADAS & automated systems have created several 
opportunities for market growth. The growing integration & adoption of automotive electronics in modern vehicles to 
deliver enhanced safety & comfort to consumers is one of the major factors driving the automotive electronics industry 
growth. Several features offered by OEMs including Automated Emergency Braking (AEB) system, airbag system, 
and lane departure warning, etc. have significantly decreased road accidents worldwide. Automotive electronics along 
with the presence of broad computing technologies and connected features are enhancing automobile capabilities. 
Alcohol ignition interlock, accident data recorder system, and emergency call system are some of the features gaining 
attraction, which will further propel the growth. According to Allied Market Research, the global Auto electronics market 
is estimated to reach USD 382.16 billion by 2026, growing at a CAGR of 7.3 percent from 2019 to 2026.
Automotive Mission Plan 2016-26 targets India to be among the top three in the world for engineering, manufacturing and 
export of vehicles and auto components. The growing presence of global automobile Original Equipment Manufacturers 
(OEMs) in the Indian manufacturing landscape has significantly increased the localization of their components in the 
country. India has become the preferred designing and manufacturing base for most global auto OEMs for local sourcing 
and exports. 
3.2.7	 Electronic Components 
The global market for electronic components is expected to grow. Following this global trend, the Indian electronic 
components market is also poised to grow significantly. Mobile Phones, Consumer Electronics and Industrial Electronics 
account for the major demand (82%) for electronic components in India. 
GoI launched the Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS) 
(notified vide Gazette Notification No.CG-DL-E-01042020-218992 dated April 01, 2020). This scheme provides financial 
incentive of 25% on capital expenditure for the identified list of electronic goods that comprise downstream value chain 
of electronic products, i.e., electronic components, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies and capital goods for 
manufacture of aforesaid goods, e-waste recycling facility and R&D units for the manufacturing of semiconductors. 
Apart from SPECS, the other initiatives of the Government that boost the production of electronic components include 
rationalization of tariff structure, Phased Manufacturing Programme (PMP), and notification of electronics products 
under the Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017. Under the umbrella of “Make in India” program, 
BCD has been imposed on Printed Circuit Board (PCB) Assembly of Mobile handsets with the intention to strengthen 
the domestic EMS and components segment in India. Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale 
Electronics Manufacturing is also supporting manufacturing of specified electronic components. The Indian government 
has imposed an anti-dumping duty (ADD) on bare printed circuit boards (PCBs) with fewer than six layers.
