REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Make in India
Annual
2024-2025
76
incentives as well as design infrastructure 
support across various stages of develop-
ment and deployment of semiconductor de-
sign for Integrated Circuits (ICs), Chipsets, 
System on Chips (SoCs), Systems & IP 
Cores and semiconductor linked design.
 
• 
Under the “Product Design Linked Incen-
tive” component of the scheme, reimburse-
ment of up to 50% of the eligible expenditure 
subject to a ceiling of Rs15 crore per appli-
cation will be provided as fiscal support to 
the approved applicants. This shall include 
expenditure relating to design, development, 
testing, fabrication, validation, prototype de-
velopment, product development, filing of 
Intellectual Property Rights etc. It will also 
include manpower costs.
 
• 
Under the “Deployment Linked Incentive” 
component of the scheme, incentive of 6% 
to 4% of net sales turnover over 5 years sub-
ject to a ceiling of ` 30 crore per application 
will be provided to the approved applicants 
whose semiconductor design for Integrated 
Circuits (ICs), Chipsets, System on Chips 
(SoCs), Systems & IP Cores and semicon-
ductor linked design are deployed in elec-
tronic products.
 
• 
C-DAC is the Nodal Agency to implement 
the scheme and establish the semiconduc-
tor design infrastructure such as EDA Tool 
Grid, repository of IP Cores, hardware and 
software licenses, patents and trademarks 
etc.
8.5	
India Semiconductor Mission (ISM)
 
• 
India Semiconductor Mission (ISM) imple-
ments the schemes for Semiconductor and 
Display Fabs, Compound Semiconductor 
Fabs, Silicon Photonics Fabs, MEMS Sen-
sors Fabs, Discrete Semiconductor Fabs 
and Semiconductor Packaging Units (ATMP 
/ OSAT). It drives the long-term strategies for 
the development of semiconductor and dis-
play ecosystem in the country.
 
• 
The India Semiconductor Mission acts as 
the nodal agency for efficient and smooth 
implementation of the schemes for setting 
up of Semiconductor, Display Fabs and 
Compound 
Semiconductors/ATMP/OSAT 
facilities in India.
8.6	
Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL) 
	
The Union Cabinet has also approved that 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology 
will take requisite steps for modernization and 
commercialization of Semi-conductor Laboratory 
(SCL), Mohali. Semi-conductor Laboratory (SCL), 
Mohali has been brought under the administrative 
control of Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology from Department of Space.
	
SCL is an Integrated Device Manufacturer 
which undertakes activities pertaining to design, 
development, fabrication, assembly & packaging, 
testing and quality assurance of Silicon CMOS and 
MEMS Devices for various applications. Presently, 
SCL has two wafer fabrication lines, i.e., 200 mm 
wafer line operating in 180nm CMOS technology 
and 150 mm wafer line for MEMS technology. SCL 
predominantly caters to low volume requirements 
for various applications.
	
Boston Consulting Group (BCG) has been 
engaged for providing consultancy services for 
Modernization of Semi-Conductor Laboratory, 
Mohali. 
8.7	
Projects approved under the Programme:
	
The Government has approved following projects:
	
i.	
Micron Technology Inc.’s proposal for set-
ting up an ATMP facility in India with an in-
vestment of ` 22,516 crore was approved 
in June 2023. Micron’s facility in India will 
enable assembly and test manufacturing 
for both DRAM and NAND products and ad-
dress demand from domestic and interna-
tional markets with a production capacity of 
around 40 million per week.
	
ii.	
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s 
proposal for setting up a Semiconductor Fab 
