Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
240
B. Hyderabad laboratory 
C-MET, Hyderabad, has evolved as a national hub for research and technology development in advanced materials, 
especially those critical to strategic and electronic applications. Recognizing the importance of self-reliance in critical raw 
materials (CRMs), rare earth elements (REEs), ultra-high purity (UHP) metals, and wide bandgap (WGB) semiconductors, 
C-MET Hyderabad has invested significantly in building comprehensive laboratory infrastructure, specialized R&D units, 
pilot-scale facilities, and state-of-the-art instrumentation. This combination of capabilities enables C-MET to undertake 
end-to-end development starting from processing of raw materials to fabrication and evaluation of functional devices, 
while supporting scale-up and transfer of technologies to user agencies and industry. C-MET Hyderabad laboratory 
embraces unique R&D facilities, one of its kinds in the country for purification of metals to 99.99999 % (7N grade). A 
state-of-the-art SiC single crystal growth facility has been established, achieving a significant milestone by successfully 
growing 2-inch diameter semi insulating 6H SiC boules. The facility is further equipped for the growth of large-diameter 
SiC single crystal boules up to 6 inches to cater to the demands of power electronics and strategic device applications.
One of the key differentiators of C-MET Hyderabad is its robust pilot-scale and production infrastructure that enables 
seamless translation of lab-scale research into industrial processes. Among the most strategic of these is the Hafnium 
(Hf) production plant, which has been established with an annual production capacity of 320kg. This facility, recognized 
as the sole establishment of its kind within India, is designed to extract high-purity hafnium metal from intermediate 
zirconium-hafnium feedstock through the application of solvent extraction and metallothermic reduction methodologies. 
The purified Hf metal is used in aerospace alloys for space applications and supplied directly to ISRO and other 
strategic sectors. The entire process is backed by in-house Q Acertification using various characterization techniques, 
making C-MET the sole supplier of aerospace-grade Hf.
C. Thrissur laboratory	
The focus of C-MET Thrissur is in the development of materials and devices encompassing Sensors and Actuators, 2D 
materials, Microwave materials, Energy materials and storage devices, piezo electric materials and Plasmonic materials 
for electronic applications. In addition, the two national programs being implemented are i) Centre of Excellence on IoT 
based sensors, and ii) India Innovation Centre for Graphene (IICG). CMET Thrissur has gained expertise to develop 
customised IIoT sensors and deployed them for field trials. It has championed the art of making multi stacked capacitors 
and actuators are catering to the requirement of strategic sectors. Thrissur laboratory also meeting requirement of 
health sector in the form point of care devices based on plasmonic sensors, thermal sensor based early warning cancer 
devices and indigenously developed ultrasound probe.
Various reputed organizations such as DRDO, ISRO and DAE institutions and other private industries/start-ups have 
joined hands with C-MET through Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) to facilitate collaborative activities. These 
meaningful associations exemplify C-MET’s dedication towards encouraging innovation, knowledge exchange, and 
progress in diverse fields through joint efforts.
9.3.2   Products developed by C-MET for different applications 
•	
3D printed pouch cell and coin cell
•	
3D design and printed package of POC 4 (Optical coupler for opto-electronic packaging) and POC 5 (Ring 
resonator)
•	
Carbide derived carbon (CDC)
•	
Polybutadiene based Substrate Integrated Waveguides (SIW) for microwave and millimetre wave circuit 
applications
•	
Tri-band composite NavIC Antenna
