Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
195
9.1.2.5	 Chips to Startup (C2S)
C-DAC is Programme Coordination Institution for overall 
implementation of Chips to Startup (C2S) Programme. 
100 Institutes, 13 Startups /MSMEs have been selected 
for financial support based on Call-For-Proposals. Vari-
ous FPGA boards identified and recommended by the 
CEPC were procured and distributed to all participating 
institutes under C2S Programme. 200+ organizations are 
supported for the EDA tools including institutes supported 
for funds. Currently Synopsys, Cadence, Siemens-EDA, 
Ansys and Keysight EDA Tool Licenses under C2S Pro-
gramme are successfully installed and hosted at ChipIN 
Centre, C-DAC Bengaluru for all participating institutions 
under C2S Programme. A total of over 120 EDA tool 
technical training sessions have been organized for all 
participating institutions so far. 
9.1.2.6	 Design Linked Incentive (DLI)
The Design Linked Incentive (DLI) Scheme shall offer 
financial incentives as well as design infrastructure 
support across various stages of development and 
deployment of semiconductor design for Integrated 
Circuits (ICs), Chipsets, System on Chips (SoCs), 
Systems & IP Cores and semiconductor linked design 
over a period of 5 years. As on January 01, 2025, total 
of 190 applications are received, 89 are under scrutiny 
(Financial & Technical) and, 17 are approved under 
PDLI funding, and 50 are approved under for EDA 
tool support. There are 98 indigenous start-ups and 
73 MSME applicants. Total cost of approved financial 
incentive under DLI is Rs. 203.22 Cr. and Rs. 22.16 Cr 
had already been disbursed to Startup and MSME based 
on the achieved project milestones.
9.1.3	 Quantum Computing
9.1.3.1 Metro Area Quantum Access Network 
(MAQAN)
MAQAN is India’s first Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) 
network and R&D testbed, marking a significant step 
towards quantum-safe communication. The project led 
to the indigenous development of a QKD chassis with 
control electronics for CoW and DPS protocols, alongside 
a hardware and software-based key distillation engine. A 
softcore Post Quantum Cryptography (PQC) mechanism 
was implemented as a fail-safe, and SDN-enabled 
QKD network management was achieved through the 
DARPAN-Q application. Additionally, a QKD network 
simulator and chassis emulator with integrated Optical 
Time Domain Reflectometer (OTDR) monitoring were 
also developed. This initiative resulted in an indigenous 
quantum-safe security solution for critical communication 
infrastructure and enhanced domestic capability in 
quantum technology. The network is currently operational 
in a 5-node topology. The project was a collaborative 
effort of IITM, SETS India, ERNET and C-DAC. The 
project has translated into the next phase project titled 
“Quantum Internet with Local Access” under the National 
Quantum Mission focussing on long distance fiber based 
QKD over 2000 km across India. 
MAQAN Network
9.1.3.2	 QSim - Quantum Computer Simulator Toolkit
The Quantum Computing Toolkit Project significantly 
advanced India’s quantum computing research as one of 
the country’s pioneering initiatives. Developed through a 
collaborative effort involving IISc Bengaluru, IIT-Roorkee, 
and C-DAC, the project led to the launch of QSim by Shri 
Rajeev Chandrasekhar, then Hon’ble Minister of State 
for Electronics & IT. It provided a robust, indigenous 
toolkit for simulating and experimenting with quantum 
circuits, including noisy circuits, and delivered hands-
on training to students, researchers, and scientists. This 
effort has cultivated an expansive user network, boasting 
over 6,800+ registered users on QSim (qctoolkit.in) from 
leading academic institutes and organizations like IITs, 
DRDO, IISER, TCS, Infosys, and IBM. Various training 
and workshops are conducted using QSim platform. 
Additionally, QSim is optimized for accelerator platforms 
like GPUs, enhancing performance and enabling faster 
simulations. 
