Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
293
in the presence of Smt. Sunita Verma, Scientist G and Group Co-ordinator, MeitY, and other senior Officers from 
NIELIT. 
(viii)	 Inauguration of IT cum Security Lab
On 20th November 2024, Ms. Tulika Pandey, Sr. Director & Group Coordinator, HRD Division, MeitY, Govt. of India, 
inaugurated the IT and Security Lab under the project “Empowering Police and Government Officials of NE States 
through IT and Cybersecurity Training” at NIELIT Shillong, in the presence of other dignitaries.
(ix)	
Establishment of Remote Hardware Lab
NIELIT Chennai has established a state-of-the-art Remote Hardware Lab (RHL) as part of its Virtual Lab initiative. This 
innovative facility provides students with remote access to advanced FPGA platforms (including Ultrascale+ boards, 
supported by the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India) and IC design tools of Synopsys and Cadence 
(supported under the Chips to Startup (C2S) program of MeitY, GoI.
(x)	
1st IEEE Uttar Pradesh Women in Engineering Conference (UPWIECON-2025)
In its endeavour to promote women’s participation in today’s technology-driven world,  NIELIT has organized the “1st 
IEEE Uttar Pradesh Women in Engineering Conference (UPWIECON-2025)” on October 30-31, 2025, under the banner 
of the IEEE UP Section & @WIE IEEE UP Section affinity group in Dehradun.  The conference was inaugurated by 
Hon’ble Uttarakhand Cabinet Minister, Shri Ganesh Joshi and it aimed to promote women in Engineering and served as 
a global platform for women technologists, researchers, and academicians to exchange ideas and foster collaboration 
in Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering.
(xi)	
Union Finance Minister launched Project ‘SAMARTH’ at NIELIT Kohima
Hon’ble Union Finance Minister, Smt.Nirmala Sitharaman launched Project ‘SAMARTH’ at NIELIT Kohima, a 
groundbreaking initiative for school students across the Northeast to build skills in AI, Robotics and Digital Hardware 
towards empowering young minds for a tech-driven future. In the presence of Union Finance Minister, NIELIT Kohima 
also signed an MoU with Tata Electronics to strengthen India’s semiconductor skilling ecosystem and bridge the skill 
gap in the semiconductor industry. A significant step toward building future-ready talent.
