REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
﻿
Annual
2024-2025
10
 To promote indigenous manufacturing, the government has introduced programmes like the Semicon India Programme 
(SIP), Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing, PLI Scheme 2.0 for IT 
Hardware, Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS), and 
Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) Scheme. These initiatives aim to transform India into a hub for 
electronics production and semiconductor manufacturing. The electronics sector has witnessed remarkable growth, 
with domestic production increasing from INR 5.54 lakh crore (~USD 76 billion) in FY 2020-21 to INR 9.52 lakh crore 
(~USD 115 billion) in FY 2023-24, reflecting a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 19.78%. Projections indicate 
that India’s electronics production will reach USD 300 billion by 2026. Semicon India Programme (SIP) aims to provide 
financial support to companies investing in semiconductors, display manufacturing and design ecosystem. Under SIP, 
five projects of private sector players has been approved for setting up facilities to develop indigenous semiconductor 
technologies. 
India has established itself as a global IT services hub and has emerged as the World’s 3rd largest start-up ecosystem 
with more than 1,50,000 startups operating in the country and 115 unicorns with a total valuation of more than $ 350 
Bn. The Indian IT/ ITeS industry has a leading position globally and has been progressively contributing to the growth 
of exports and the creation of employment opportunities. India’s IT-BPM industry is expected to grew by ~3.7 % to 
reach at USD 254 Billion, including exports of 199.5 USD Billion in FY2023-24 (E). India has positioned itself as a 
major hub for Global Capability Centres (GCCs), providing offshore facilities to multinational corporations (MNCs) for 
managing business operations. These centres are among the fast-growing segments of India’s digital economy. To 
further accelerate its expansion, MeitY is developing a new policy framework that will provide fresh incentives for these 
centres. Several Centres of Excellence (CoEs) have been set up to promote startups, incubation, and innovation in 
these areas. Furthermore, initiatives like the Future Skills Programme are also enabling Indian IT professionals to attain 
world-class skills in these technologies.
India has emerged as a key player in artificial intelligence and emerging technologies. On 7th March 2024, the 
Government of India has approved the IndiaAI Mission, a comprehensive national-level programme to democratize and 
catalyze the AI innovation ecosystem in the country and ensure the global competitiveness of India’s AI startups and 
researchers. The Government of India hosted the ‘Global IndiaAI Summit’ on July 3-4, 2024, in New Delhi. The summit 
focused on advancing AI development in areas like Compute Capacity, Foundational Models, Datasets, Application 
Development, Future Skills, Startup Financing, and Safe AI, which are the seven key pillars of IndiaAi Mission.
Self-reliance on advanced technologies is a key pillar for the sustainability and consistent growth of the digital economy. 
In this regard, MeitY has initiated the National Supercomputing Mission (NSM) to develop indigenous computing systems, 
encompassing HPC components such as processors, server boards, interconnects, clusters, and cooling systems. 
Under Phase 3, nine PARAM Rudra systems have been deployed at various locations. Operational installations include 
3.0 PF systems at IUAC Delhi, IIT Madras, and IIT Mumbai; a 1 PF system at GMRT-TIFR Pune; and 838 TF systems 
at SN Bose NCBS Kolkata, IIT Patna, and IIT Jammu. Furthermore, C-DAC has partnered with MosChip and Socionext 
