Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
75
crore, total investment of ` 522.17 crore and total 
employment of 3,879.
7.	
Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of 
Electronic Components and Semiconductors 
(SPECS) 
 
Notified vide Gazette Notification dated April 01, 
2020, the Scheme provides financial incentive of 
25% on capital expenditure for the identified list 
of electronic goods that comprise downstream 
value chain of electronic products, i.e., electronic 
components, semiconductor/ display fabrication 
units, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies 
and capital goods for manufacture of aforesaid 
goods. The scheme promotes development of 
electronic components manufacturing ecosystem 
in the country and deepening of electronics value 
chain and is expected to bring new investments to 
the tune of ` 20,000 crore with total employment 
generation potential (Direct and Indirect) of 
6,00,000. The scheme is closed to receive new 
applications on 31.03.2024.
	
Progress under the scheme till December, 2024 
as per latest Quarterly Progress Report
	
58 applications have been approved with total 
proposed investment of Rs.22,081 crore. As per 
the Quarterly Progress report submitted by the 
applicant total investment done by the approved 
applications is ` 9,481.56 crore. Total production 
done by the approved applications is ` 25,571.59 
crore. Total employment generated by the 
approved applications is 39,092 persons.
8.	
Modified Programme for Development of 
Semiconductors and Display Manufacturing 
Ecosystem in India
	
In furtherance of the vision of AatmaNirbhar Bharat 
and positioning India as the global hub for ESDM, 
a comprehensive program for the development 
of semiconductors and display manufacturing 
ecosystem in India was approved by Government of 
India with an outlay of ` 76,000 crore (>$10 billion). 
The Programme contained various schemes to 
attract investments in the field of semiconductors 
and display manufacturing. The following four 
schemes have been notified under the Semicon 
India Programme: -
8.1	
Modified Scheme for setting up Semiconductor 
Fabs in India
	
•	
The scheme is aimed at attracting large 
investments for setting up semiconductor 
wafer fabrication facilities in the country to 
strengthen the electronics manufacturing 
ecosystem and help establish a trusted val-
ue chain.
	
•	
The Scheme extends a fiscal support of 50% 
of the project cost across the technologyn-
odes for setting up of Silicon based Semi-
conductor Fabs in India.
 
The fiscal support under the scheme shall be 
provided on pari-passu basis for a period of six 
years from the date of approval.
8.2	
Modified Scheme for setting up of Display Fabs 
in India
	
The scheme is aimed at attracting large investments 
for manufacturing TFT LCD or AMOLED based 
display panels in the country to strengthen 
the electronics manufacturing ecosystem. The 
Scheme extends fiscal support of 50% of Project 
Cost for setting up of Display Fabs in India. The 
fiscal support under the scheme shall be provided 
on pari-passu basis for a period of six years from 
the date of approval.
8.3 
Modified Scheme for setting up of Compound 
Semiconductors / Silicon Photonics / Sensors Fab/ 
Discrete Semiconductors Fab and Semiconductor 
Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging 
(ATMP) / OSAT facilities in India
 
The scheme extends a fiscal support of 50% 
of the Capital Expenditure for setting up of 
Compound Semiconductors / Silicon Photonics 
(SiPh) / Sensors (including MEMS) Fab/ Discrete 
Semiconductor Fab and Semiconductor ATMP / 
OSAT facilities in India.
8.4	
Design Linked Incentive (DLI) Scheme
 
• 
‘Design Linked Incentive Scheme’ has been 
notified on 21.12.2021. It shall offer financial 
