REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Skill India
Annual
2024-2025
176
lice officers have been trained as master trainers.
III.	
FutureSkills PRIME (Programme for Re- skilling/
Up-skilling of IT Manpower for Employability)
	
MeitY in collaboration with SSC-NASSCOM has 
initiated a programme titled FutureSkills PRIME 
(Programme 
for 
Re-skilling/Up-skilling 
of 
IT 
Manpower for Employability). The programme is 
aimed at re-skilling/ up-skilling of IT professionals 
in 11 new/emerging technologies which include 
Augmented/Virtual Reality, Internet of Things, 
Big Data Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Robotic 
Process Automation, Additive Manufacturing/ 3D 
Printing, Cloud Computing, Social & Mobile, Cyber 
Security, Blockchain and semiconductors.
	
FutureSkills 
PRIME 
Programme 
is 
based 
on ‘aggregator of aggregators’ approach for digital 
skills training on a national scale, with the entire 
platform being hosted online. Premium content 
from Indian and global content providers is 
aggregated on the FutureSkills PRIME portal and 
made available to candidates, to facilitate any time 
anywhere learning, in line with their aptitude and 
aspirations.
	
Under the programme IT-ITeS Sector Skills Council 
(SSC), NASSCOM is the Key Implementing Agency. 
To strengthen physical and digital connectivity, the 
existing pan-India presence & skilling capabilities 
of training providers (SSC NASSCOM, NIELIT, 
C-DAC etc.) is also leveraged. Towards this, 40 
C-DAC/ NIELIT Centres are identified as Lead & 
Co-Lead Resource Centres (RCs) to institutionalize 
the blended-learning training programmes in a hub 
and spoke mode for the 11 emerging technologies.
	
Under the FutureSkills PRIME as of 31.12.2024, a 
total of 20Lakh+ candidates have signed-up on the 
FutureSkills PRIME portal (https:// futureskillsprime.
in/), and around 8.93 Lakh candidates have been 
enrolled in various courses, out of which a total 
of 4.34 Lakh candidates have completed the 
courses. Also, the Resource Centres (Lead/ Co-
Lead Centres), have trained 11,519 Government 
Officials (GoT) and 2,367 Trainers (ToT). Moreover, 
1447 Bootcamps are organized.
IV.	
Capacity 
building 
for 
human 
resource 
development in Unmanned Aircraft Systems 
(Drone and related Technology)
	
MeitY has approved the project entitled “Capacity 
Building for Human Resource Development in 
Unmanned Aircraft System(Drone) and Related 
Technology)” on 11.07.2022. The primary objective 
of the programme is to leverage collaborative 
activities in human resource development through 
capacity building in education and training in the 
area of UAS. The programme is conceived to 
achieve the broad objectives which include
	
I.	
To enhance capacity & capabilities of select 
institutions in identified WTs on Unmanned 
Aircraft Systems, 
	
II.	
To institutionalize a collaborative ecosystem 
through identified Resource Centres (RCs) 
and Participating Institutions (PIs) for syn-
ergy of capabilities & expertise
	
III.	
To foster development of competent human 
resources at various levels including Post 
Graduate & Graduate programs, PG Diplo-
ma/Certificate programs, Faculty Updation 
and Master Trainers in niche areas of UAS
	
IV.	
To promote entrepreneurial mindset and 
nurture technical talent among the student 
community 
	
V.	
To nurture technical talent and ideation 
among the student community through IPR 
generation, Competitions, Workshops/ Con-
ferences, etc.
	
The project, implementation is being carried out by 
30 premium institutions, in a hub-n-spoke mode, 
comprising 5 Resource Centres; 15 Academic 
Participating Institutes (PI- Academic); and 10 
C-DAC/NIELIT Participating Institutes (PI-C-DAC/
NIELIT) Centers. The project aims to create an 
overall trained manpower of 42,560 which includes 
100 candidates undertaking M.Tech Degree in 
UAS/Drones, 4000 candidates undertaking Minor 
Degree/Retrofitting courses in UAS/Drones, 1000 
Master Trainer/FUP, 32,400 students trained 
through non-formal short term and certificate 
course.
