Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
255
• 
M/s Sarv Webs Pvt. Ltd. (Product Name: Sarv 
Wave) 
• 
M/s People Link Unified Communications Pvt Ltd’ 
(Product name: Insta VC) 
NIC has created a secure infrastructure for “Vconsol” 
product at National Data Centre New Delhi with a 
capacity of around 1000 concurrence users and started 
rolling out the services for the Government of India uses 
in the brand name of “BharatVC”. More than 3 Lakh VC 
meetings have been held on Bharat VC as on July 31, 
2024. 
9.9.10 Centre of Entrepreneurship on Industry 4.0 at 
Rashtriya ISPAT Nigam Ltd. - Visakhapatnam Steel 
Plant (RINL-VSP)
The demand for Industry 4.0 products and solutions is 
going to rise exponentially in the backdrop of growing 
Industrial 
Automation. 
Strengthening 
domestic 
capabilities of Industry 4.0 products & solutions will take 
the domestic industry up the value chain significantly by 
way of an increase in products, patents & IPR. In order to 
boost start-ups in these fields, a Centre of Excellence in 
the field of Industry 4.0 at RINL Visakhapatnam has been 
established. It will nurture around 175 innovative startups 
over a period of five years. 
The CoE facility includes an area of 6,000 Sq.ft. with the 
state-of-the-art incubation facility housed on the campus 
of RINL-VSP. This CoE has domain-specific physical 
laboratories like IIoT, AI/ML & AR/VR and Industrial 
Automation, Robotics, Drone & 3D printing setup with 
the required equipment and software in the domain 
to support the startups. So far, 10 startups have been 
onboarded, resulting in the development of 3 prototypes, 
2 products by these start-ups.
9.9.11 iTamil Nadu Technology (iTNT) Hub in Chennai 
The iTNT Hub in Chennai has been established with a 
total outlay of `54.61 crores with MeitY’s contribution 
of `27 crores over a period of five years. The primary 
objective of Tamil Nadu Technology Hub is to nurture the 
deep/emerging tech innovation ecosystem in Tamil Nadu 
that can guide, develop, implement and support startups, 
especially in the scaling-up phase in Deep Tech. The iTNT 
Hub shall support 200 start-ups in the hub & spoke model 
and provide acceleration and infrastructural service. In 
addition, 200 numbers of start-ups will be accelerated in 
deep tech/emerging tech. So far, 24 startups have been 
incubated and 6 products launched by these startups.
9.10	 Digital India Corporation (DIC)
9.10.1 Introduction
Digital India Corporation (DIC) is a not-for-profit company 
set up & promoted by the Ministry of Electronics and 
Information Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India. The 
Company leads & guides in realising the vision, objectives 
and goals of the Digital India program. It provides strategic 
support to Ministries / Departments of Centre / States 
to carry forward the mission of Digital India by way of 
capacity building for e-Governance projects, promoting 
best practices, encouraging Public-Private Partnerships 
(PPP), nurturing innovations and technologies in various 
domains.
The company encompasses 7 Independent Business 
Divisions (IBDs) viz. KIDIC Core or Technology 
Development & Deployment Division (TDDD), NeGD 
(National e-Governance Division), MyGov, MeitY Startup 
Hub (MSH), India Semiconductor Mission (ISM), Digital 
India Bhashini Division (DIBD) and INDIAai.
9.10.2 DIC Core or Technology Development & 
Deployment Division 
9.10.2.1 Poshan Tracker
‘Poshan Tracker’ is a mobile-based application for 
dynamic identification of stunting, wasting, and under-
weight prevalence among children and last-mile tracking 
of nutrition service delivery by Anganwadi Workers at 
Anganwadi centres. The application has further been 
made available to State Officials with the integration 
of the Supportive Supervision Application and also to 
beneficiaries through the new Beneficiary interface.
The work undertaken in the area of Process Re-
engineering for Digital Transformation:
A.	
Face Capture and Authentication in SNP 
distribution: The Poshan Tracker is equipped with 
the new face capture and authentication feature 
