Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
77
facility in India with an investment of ` 91,526 
crore was approved in February 2024. The 
fab facility will be set up in technology part-
nership with PSMC, Taiwan. PSMC is an 
established semiconductor company hav-
ing 6 semiconductor foundries in Taiwan. 
The production capacity of the project would 
be around 50,000 wafer starts per month 
(WSPM). 
	
iii.	
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s 
proposal for setting up of OSAT facility in 
India with an investment of ` 27,120 crores 
was approved in February 2024. The facility 
will use indigenous semiconductor packag-
ing technologies with a production capacity 
of 48 million per day.
	
iv.	
CG Power and Industrial Solutions Limited’s 
proposal for setting up OSAT facility in India 
with an investment of ` 7,584 crore was also 
approved in February 2024. The facility will 
be set up as joint venture partnership with 
Renesas Electronics America Inc., USA, 
and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. The 
technology would be provided for this facil-
ity by Renesas Electronics Corporation, Ja-
pan and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. 
The production capacity would be around 
15.07Million Units per day. 
	
v.	
Kaynes Technology India Limited (KTIL) 
proposal of for setting up of Outsourced 
Semiconductor Assembly and Test (OSAT) 
facility at Sanand, Gujarat for Wire bond In-
terconnect, Substrate Based Packages was 
approved in September, 2024. The Technol-
ogy would be provided by ISO Technology 
Sdn. Bhd. and Aptos Technology Inc. This 
facility will be setup with an investment of ` 
3,307 crore. The facility will have the capac-
ity to produce more than 6.33 Million chips 
per day.
	
vi.	
51 start-ups and MSMEs companies have 
been approved for design infrastructure sup-
port under the DLI Scheme made available 
by ChipIN Centre at C-DAC Bengaluru. Out 
of these, 17 companies have also been ap-
proved for financial support for developing 
semiconductor chip/ SoCs for applications in 
sectors such as automotive, mobility, com-
puting, communications etc namely - DV2JS 
Innovation LLP­, Vervesemi Microelectron-
ics, Fermionic Design, Morphing Machines, 
Calligo Technologies, Sensesemi Technolo-
gies, Saankhya Labs, Aryabhata Circuits and 
Research Labs, BigEndian Semiconductors, 
C2i Semiconductors, Aheesa Digital Innova-
tions, Mindgrove Technologies, InCore Sem-
iconductors, Netrasemi, Green PMU Semi, 
WiSig Networks, MosChip Technologies.
8.8	
Employment: The semiconductor manufacturing 
facilities will generate direct employment of about 
25 thousand advanced technology jobs and about 
60 thousand indirect jobs. 
3.4	
Investment Promotion to Attract Investment in 
ESDM Sector	
3.4.1	 Promotion of PLI, SPECS, EMC 2.0 and 
Schemes for Development of Semiconductors and 
Display Manufacturing Ecosystem in India
To stimulate more investment in the Electronics 
System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) sector in 
India, several investment promotion initiatives have 
been launched. In addition, these initiatives are aimed 
at creating a world-class semiconductor and display 
manufacturing ecosystem, these efforts also include the 
introduction of significant schemes like the PLI Scheme 
2.0 for IT Hardware. Further, thorough outreach plan that 
includes online meetings with possible investors and in-
depth presentations outlining the advantages of these 
programs were conducted. To address the concerns and 
establish a clear investment path, high-level discussions 
were arranged, including direct interactions between 
company representatives and senior officials from MeitY. 
As a result of these promotional efforts, India is now 
seen as a potential ESDM destination and have greatly 
increased awareness and interest in the international 
industry.
