Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
95
200 engineers to the workforce. The Phase II office of Microchip is underway to add more than 1200 engineers in 
Chennai.
MoU with Singapore: Government of India has recently signed an MoU with Singapore to establish an “India-Singapore 
Semiconductor Ecosystem Policy Dialogue”. The Policy Dialogue will be used as a platform to:
• 
Discuss semiconductor supply chain related issues;
• 
Exchange best practices to leverage opportunities for growth in the global semiconductor industry;
• 
Explore areas for mutually beneficial semiconductor R&D collaboration; 
• 
Encourage collaboration between Singapore-based and India-based companies towards mutually beneficial 
semiconductor related business opportunities and partnerships;
• 
Consider initiatives to enhance semiconductor supply chain resilience, based on areas of mutual strength such as 
fabs, packaging, design, equipment, specialty chemicals and gases, semiconductor grade materials; and
• 
Promote Industrial Parks and workforce development for mutual benefit
3.3.9.8 R&D Road map
• 
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) has announced a planned investment of $400 Mn to establish Collaborative 
Engineering Centre in Bangalore. During the initial 5 years. the center would support $2Bn+ of spending and 
create ~500 advanced engineering jobs. This initiative will facilitate R&D collaboration amongst R&D team of 
Applied Materials, Indian academic institutions and R&D team of vendors of Applied Materials. This will also help 
in development and sourcing of components/sub-assemblies required for the AMAT’s semiconductor equipment.
• 
Advanced Micro Devices: Advanced Micro Device (AMD) announced plan to invest approximately $400 Million 
over the next five years to expand Research, Development and Engineering Operations in India. The planned 
investment includes a new AMD campus in Bangalore, Karnataka that will serve as the company’s largest design 
center, as well as the addition of approximately 3,000 new engineering roles by the end of 2028. AMD committed 
to an investment of $73Mn for Year 2024 and $32Mn for Year 2025 as a part of $400Mn investment. It has hired 
980 Engineers, including 22% women. 
• 
Microchip: Microchip Technology announced a $300 million investment plan to expand its operations in India. To 
strengthen its presence in India, the company has inaugurated a new research and development (R&D) facility 
at One Golden Mile Office Tower in Hyderabad. This 168,000-square-foot center, which has a capacity for 1,000 
employees, joins Microchip’s existing developments in Bengaluru and Chennai. Microchip has added more than 
200 engineers to the workforce. The Phase II office of Microchip is underway to add more than 1200 engineers in 
Chennai.
3.3.10	 Investment Promotion to Attract Investment in ESDM Sector
3.3.10.1 Promotion of ECMS, PLI, SPECS, EMC 2.0 and Schemes for Development of Semiconductors and 
Display Manufacturing Ecosystem in India
To boost investment in India’s Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) sector, the Ministry undertook a 
series of targeted promotion initiatives, including the launch of a new initiate i.e. Electronics Component Manufacturing 
Scheme. Extensive outreach efforts - such as webinars, seminars, roadshows and stakeholder consultations - were 
conducted to highlight the benefits of these schemes. High-level engagements were also facilitated, enabling direct 
interactions between industry representatives and senior MeitY officials to address concerns and provide clarity on 
investment pathways. These efforts have positioned India as a promising destination for ESDM, significantly enhancing 
global awareness and industry interest.
