REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Skill India
Annual
2024-2025
174
respective domains. The Ministry has also supported the 
development of new job roles/NOSs with ESSCI, TSSC, 
and IT/ITeS Sector Skill Council in the area of Electronics 
and IT. 
7.4	
Capacity Building in Niche Areas
I.	
Programme in Chips to Startup (C2S) 
The C2S Programme aims to train 85,000 number of 
Specialized Manpower at 113 participating Institutions 
(including Academia, R&D Organization, Startups, 
MSMEs) over a period of 5 years in the area of VLSI 
and Embedded System Design and leapfrog in ESDM 
space by way of inculcating the culture of System-on-
Chip (SoC)/ System Level Design at Bachelors, Masters 
and Research level and act as a catalyst for growth of 
Start-ups involved in fabless design. 
The programme would not only generate 85,000 number 
of Specialized Manpower at B.Tech, M.Tech & PhD level 
in Chip design area; but also results in the development 
of 20 Systems/ 175 Chips/ 30 reusable IP Cores and 
incubating 25 startups in this area. Details of the 
Programme are available at http://c2s.gov.in/
• 
Under 
the 
programme, 
113 
Organizations 
across the country (Including Academia/ R&D 
Organization/ Startup/ MSME) are being supported 
by way of providing centralized access of EDA tools, 
Fabrication and financial support for implementing 
R&D projects for IP/ Chip/ SoC development.
• 
ChipIN Centre, setup at C-DAC Bangalore as one 
stop centre for chip designers, is providing following 
design and fabrication services to PIs under C2S 
Programme:
A.	
Design infrastructure support: 
	
1)	
EDA tools commissioned and onboarded 
about 240 institutions (against a target of 
100 institutions). Details at https://c2s.gov.
in/EDA_Tool_Support.jsp
	
2)	
Commissioning of FPGA Boards: Details at 
https://c2s.gov.in/DetailsFPGA.jsp
	
	
i)	
FPGA Boards from XILINX(AMD) has 
been provided to 100 PIs to provide 
hands-on training on FPGA prototyping 
to the students. 
	
	
ii)	
Some of the Advanced FPGA boards 
are centrally hosted at ChipIN Centre 
and are made accessible to institutions 
participating in C2S Programme. These 
boards are designed for advanced 
applications, such as AI acceleration, 
data 
analytics, 
high-performance 
computing, 
advanced 
hardware 
prototyping, etc. 
B.	
Design flow trainings
i.	
ChipIN Centre has collaborated with semiconductor 
industry and providing regular training on ASIC 
design flow and EDA Tools. So far, 141 training 
sessions conducted by the ChipIN Centre in 
collaboration with SCL Mohali, IMEC, MUSE 
Semiconductors and Semiconductor Industry such 
as Synopsys, Cadence, Siemens EDA, Ansys, 
Keysight Technologies, AMD (Xilinx) and IBM. 
The details are available at https://c2s.gov.in/
training2024.jsp
	
ChipIN Centre, as VCA (Value-chain Aggregator) 
of SCL Mohali, is providing MPW fabrication 
support to 113 PIs for fabrication of their designs at 
180nm, SCL Mohali.
ii.	
SMART Lab Facility: 
	
VLSI SMART Lab Facility has been setup at NIELIT 
Calicut (with two labs having 100 hardware system) 
to train about 1 Lakh candidates in 5 Years (20,000 
candidates /year) in Hardware design including 
VLSI Design, Embedded hardware design, Board 
design, etc. through NSQF aligned Courses and by 
providing remote access of FPGA boards ported 
with SHAKTI/ VEGA Processors. Total of 38,622 
candidates have been trained till October 2024 
for different courses offered through SMART Lab. 
Details of SMART Lab courses are available at 
https://c2s.gov.in/NIELIT_Calicut.jsp  
iii.	
M.Tech and M.DesProgramme in Electronics 
Product Design
	
To train manpower in the area of Electronics 
Product Design for designing innovative products, 
rapid prototyping & development and hands-on 
experience with cutting edge technology and 
