Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
148
the session was framing the collaborative vision in the Neuromorphic Computing sector. Discussions focused on 
processor design, circuit and material innovation, and system integration. Participants included industry leaders 
Aheesa™ Digital Innovations and CYRAN AI Solutions, and top academic institutions such as IISc Bangalore, 
IITs (Madras, Patna, BHU, Gandhinagar, Bombay, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jodhpur, Roorkee, Kanpur), JNCASR, 
IISER Thiruvananthapuram, and Digital University Kerala.
5.4	
Centre of Excellence
5.4.1	 Nanotechnology Centres 
Nanotechnology Initiatives Division at MeitY has established several Centre of Excellence in Nanotechnology to take 
the basic R&D outcomes to the prototype and then to manufacture Nano devices, subsystems, systems for the social 
benefits.
Centre of innovation & a Manufacturing Eco-System for Sensors (CIMES) in Industrial IoT 
The Centre of innovation & Manufacturing Eco-System for Sensors (CIMES) in Industrial IoT is being established 
at CSIR-CGCRI, Kolkata to enable a start-up and innovation ecosystem in the country as a solution provider in the 
optical fibre-based sensors and instrumentation for industrial IoT. The main objective of the centre is to create a 
knowledge and resource centre for Indian industries and place India in the global market of optical fibre-based sensors 
and instrumentation in the domain of geotechnical and structural health monitoring and industrial process control 
instrumentation
Magnetic Sensor Innovation for Diverse Sectors 
A dedicated facility for the upgradation and commercialization of magneto-resistive sensors leveraging GMR and TMR 
technologies, is being established at CSIR-NAL for 6-inch wafer scale. The initiative aims to develop cost-effective, 
industry-grade sensor solutions for the automotive sector, with a focus on technology transfer to industrial partners. Key 
efforts are directed toward customizing magnetic sensor products such as ABS speed sensors, current sensors, and 
angle sensors, tailored to specific industry requirements
Gas sensor testing and calibration facility
A national state-of-the-art gas sensor testing and calibration facility is being set up at CSIR-NPL for gases such as 
H2, O2, CO, CO2, NOx, SOx, H2S, N2H4, NH3, Volatile Organic compounds, etc. The sensor facility test will evaluate the 
device’s performance (5 sensors in each chamber). The gas concentration will be covered in the range from ppb to 
ppm levels as required for the specific gas. The analysis will provide accurate & precise information on the sensitivity, 
selectivity, stability, response time, acceleration test, error, temperature profile, etc., of test gas sensing devices. This 
initiative is expected to contribute significantly to environmental safety and industrial automation by providing reliable 
gas sensing solutions tailored to diverse sectors.
5.4.2	 Centre of Excellence on E-Waste Management
• 
Circular Economy in Electronic Sector
	
The Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) sector is the heartbeat of India’s digital economy—
powering innovation, connectivity, and productivity across every domain. Electronic and Electrical Equipments 
(EEE) manufacturing is dependent on high material consumption with various rare earth elements. Rate of 
extraction of these abiotic resources for EEE manufacturing is significantly higher than the rate of their formation 
in nature. Due to growing demand of electronics sector, India became the third largest consumer of raw materials 
produced globally, and with the current economic trend, estimated to consume nearly 15 billion tonnes of raw 
material by 2030. 
