Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
127
Electronic Soil Nutrients Analyzer (ESNA)
5.2.3 
Initiatives 
under 
Microelectronics 
and 
Nanotechnology areas
5.2.3.1 Some of the technologies developed/ are being 
developed indigenously under the R&D projects initiated 
in Microelectronics area are:
(i)	
Chips to Start-up (C2S) Programme: has been 
initiated by MeitY as capacity building programme 
at 113 organizations (including 100 academia/ 
R&D originations and 13 Start-ups/ MSMEs) with 
an outlay of Rs. 250 Crore for duration of 5 years in 
the year 2022. C2S Programme aims to generate 
industry-ready 85,000 number of manpower at 
113 organizations (including academic institutions, 
R&D organizations, start-ups, MSMEs) at B.Tech, 
M.Tech and PhD levels specialized in the area of 
VLSI and Embedded System Design and leapfrog 
in ESDM space by way of inculcating the culture of 
Chip/ System-on-Chip (SoC)/ System Level Design 
at Bachelors, Masters and Research level and act 
as a catalyst for growth of Start-ups involved in 
semiconductor design in the country. 
	
The 
Programme 
takes 
a 
comprehensive 
approach by offering students complete hands-on 
experience in chip design, fabrication, and testing. 
This is achieved through regular training sessions, 
conducted in collaboration with industry partners, 
and by providing mentorship and access to chip 
design, fabrication & testing resources to students, 
including state-of-the-art EDA (Electronic Design 
Automation) tools, access to semiconductor 
foundries for fabricating their chips etc. These 
opportunities include implementing the R&D 
(Research & Development) projects under C2S 
Programme for development of working prototypes 
of ASICs (Application-Specific Integrated Circuits), 
Systems/ 
SoCs 
(System-on-Chips), 
and 
IP 
(Intellectual Property) Core designs. Total 25,000+ 
number of engineering students have been trained 
at 113 organizations under C2S Programme till 
date
(ii)	
Design 
Linked 
Incentive 
(DLI) 
Scheme: 
Government of India has approved the ‘Modified 
Programme for Semiconductors and Display Fab 
Ecosystem’ with an outlay of ₹76,000 crore in order 
to catalyse the semiconductor & display ecosystem 
in the country. The Design Linked Incentive (DLI) 
Scheme has been approved as part of it with an 
outlay of Rs. 1000 Crore to offset the disabilities in 
the domestic semiconductor chip design industry 
as well as move up in value-chain and strengthen 
the semiconductor chip design ecosystem in 
the country. The DLI Scheme offers financial 
incentives & design infrastructure support to 
domestic companies, start-ups and MSMEs across 
various stages of development & deployment of 
semiconductor chips.
	
52 
design 
companies 
(including 
start-ups 
and MSMEs) have been approved for design 
infrastructure support under the DLI Scheme. Out 
of these, 15 companies have also been approved 
for financial support for developing semiconductor 
chip/ SoCs for applications in sectors such as 
automotive, mobility, computing, communications 
etc.
(iii)	
Microprocessor 
Development 
Programme: 
Family of 32-bit/ 64-bit Microprocessor has been 
indigenously designed using Open-Source ISA 
(Instruction Set Architecture) along with reusable 
IP Cores by C-DAC, IIT Madras & IIT Bombay. 
	
Following successful tapeouts were earlier carried 
out of – (a) 32-bit/ 64-bit SHAKTI Processors at 
180nm, SCL foundry & 22nm, Intel foundry by IIT 
Madras, (b) 32-bit AJIT Processor at 180nm, SCL 
foundry by IIT Bombay (c) 32-bit VEGA Processor 
