Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
92
• 
100 start-ups and MSMEs companies have been approved for design infrastructure support under the DLI Scheme 
made available by ChipIN Centre at C-DAC Bengaluru. Out of these, 24 applications have also been approved 
for financial support for developing semiconductor chip/ SoCs for applications in sectors such as automotive, 
mobility, computing, communications etc namely - DV2JS Innovation LLP, Vervesemi Microelectronics, Fermionic 
Design, Morphing Machines, Calligo Technologies, Sensesemi Technologies, Saankhya Labs, Aryabhata Circuits 
and Research Labs, BigEndian Semiconductors, C2i Semiconductors, Aheesa Digital Innovations, Mindgrove 
Technologies, InCore Semiconductors, Netrasemi, Green PMU Semi, WiSig Networks, MosChip Technologies, 
MbIt Wireless, Multi Nano Sense Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Sophrosyne Technologies Pvt. Ltd. MMRFIC Technology 
Pvt. Ltd. and Incise Infotech Limited.
3.3.9.4 International Collaborations in the field of Semiconductors:
Becoming a self-sufficient chip manufacturing nation is a complex and multifaceted endeavour that depends on 
various factors, including technological advancements, research and development (R&D), skilled labour, investment, 
infrastructure development, policy support, and global market dynamics. Recognising the internationally integrated 
nature of Semiconductor Industry, Government of India started engaging with other countries to establish a resilient 
Semiconductor Supply Chain and Innovation Partnership.
• 
MoU with USA: Government of India had signed MoU with USA for establishing semiconductor supply chain 
and innovation partnership under the framework of India-Unites States Commercial Dialogue to enhance bilateral 
collaboration on opportunities to advance resilient semiconductor supply chains and leverage complementary 
strengths.
• 
MoC with Japan: Government of India has also signed a Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) with Government 
of Japan for “Semiconductor Supply Chain Partnership” to strengthen cooperation between Japan and India 
towards the enhancement of semiconductor supply chain. 
• 
MoU with European Union: Government of India has signed an MoU with EU, to deepen cooperation on 
semiconductor ecosystem, its supply chains and innovation and leverage complementary strengths by exchanging 
best practices w.th regard to their respective semiconductor strategies and programs.
• 
MoU with Singapore: Government of India has signed an MoU with Singapore to establish the “India-Singapore 
Semiconductor Ecosystem Policy Dialogue,” aimed at enhancing cooperation in semiconductor supply chains, 
R&D, business partnerships, and workforce development, while promoting joint initiatives to boost resilience and 
growth in the semiconductor industry.
• 
MoU with Netherlands: A Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Electronics & Information 
Technology, Government of the Republic of India and Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Netherlands and 
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the India-Netherlands Partnership on 
Semiconductors and Related Emerging Technologies was signed in May 2025.
3.3.9.5 Capacity building and talent development for semiconductors:
• 
Recognizing the importance of Talent development in Semiconductor domain, Government of India has been 
making significant efforts to develop talent in the semiconductor domain. AICTE launched following model 
curriculum for UG, Diploma, Minor Degree in Semiconductor domain as a step towards creation of Talent pool in 
Semiconductor domain:
	
o	
B. Tech in Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and Technology) 
	
o	
Diploma in IC manufacturing 
	
o	
Minor Degree in Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and Technology)
