Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
91
• 
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s proposal for setting up a Semiconductor Fab facility in Gujarat with an 
investment of ` 91,526 crore was approved in February 2024. The fab facility will be set up in technology partner­
ship with PSMC, Taiwan. PSMC is an established semiconductor company having 6 semiconductor foundries in 
Taiwan. The production capacity of the project would be around 50,000 wafer starts per month (WSPM). 
• 
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s proposal for setting up of OSAT facility in Assam with an investment 
of ` 27,120 crores was approved in February 2024. The facility will use indigenous semiconductor packaging 
technologies with a production capacity of 48 million per day. 
• 
CG Power and Industrial Solutions Limited’s proposal for setting up OSAT facility in Gujarat with an investment 
of ` 7,584 crore was also approved in February 2024. The facility will be set up as joint venture partnership 
with Renesas Electronics America Inc., USA, and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. The Technology would be 
provided for this facility by Renesas Electronics Corporation, Japan and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. The 
production capacity would be around 15.07Million Units per day. 
• 
Kaynes Technology India Limited (KTIL) proposal for setting up of Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly 
and Test (OSAT) facility in Gujarat for Wire bond Interconnect, Substrate Based Packages was approved in 
September,2024. The Technology would be provided by ISO Technology Sdn. Bhd. and AOI Electronics Co. Ltd. 
(AOI). This facility will be setup with an investment of ` 3,307 crore. The facility will have the capacity to produce 
more than 6.33 million chips per day.
• 
Vama Sundari Investments (Delhi) Private Limited (VSIPL) proposal for setting up of Outsourced Semiconductor 
Assembly and Test (OSAT) facility in Uttar Pradesh for display driver ICs (DDIC) using Gold (Au) Bump technology 
along with chip probing facilities and die processing services was approved in May,2025. The Technology would 
be provided by Hon Hai, Taiwan. The facility will be set up as joint venture partnership between VSIPL and 
Foxconn, India with an investment of Rs 3,706 crore. The production capacity would be around 20K wafers per 
month/36 Mn chips per month.
• 
3D Glass Solutions Inc. (3DGS) proposal for setting up of a vertically integrated advanced packaging and 
embedded glass substrate manufacturing on the glass panels in Odisha with an investment of ` 1,943 crores has 
been approved in August,2025. The plant will handle the assembly of packaged products such as Flip Chip Ball 
Grid Array (FCBGA) assembly, Radio Frequency System in Package (RF SiP), Antenna in Package System in 
Package (AiP SiP), glass interposers with passives and silicon bridges and 3D Heterogenous Integration (3DHI) 
modules. Proposed Installed capacity for glass panel substrate production, assembly and 3DHI is around 5800 
panels per month, 4.20 million units per month, and 1100 units per months respectively.
• 
SiCSem Private Limited’s proposal for setting up an integrated facility for Silicon Carbide (SiC) based Compound 
Semiconductors fab and ATMP in Odisha with an investment of ` 2,066 crore has been approved in August 2025. 
The facility will be set up in technology partnership with Clas-SiC Wafer Fab Ltd. for SiC fab and Continental 
Device India Pvt. Ltd. for packaging. The production capacity is 5,000 wafers/month and packaging capacity of 8 
million units/month.
• 
Continental Device India Private Limited (CDIL) proposal for Brownfield expansion of its semiconductor 
manufacturing facility at Punjab, with an investment of ` 117 crores has been approved in August 2025. The 
proposed facility will manufacture high-power discrete semiconductor devices such as MOSFETs, IGBTs, 
Schottky Bypass Diodes, and transistors, both in Silicon and Silicon Carbide. The production capacity of the will 
be around 158.38 million units/annum. 
• 
Advanced System in Package Technologies Private Limited (ASIP) proposal for setting up an OSAT facility in 
Andhra Pradesh, with an investment of ` 480 crores in August 2025. The facility will be set up in technology 
partnership with APACT Co. Ltd, South Korea. The production capacity of the facility would be around 96 million 
units/annum. 
