Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
94
 
The key announcements that were made during the event are:
•	
Reopening of the EDA tool access window under the Design Linked Incentive (DLI) scheme. 
• 
Selection of 30 semi-finalists under the Digital India RISC-V Grand Challenge. 
•	
GlobalFoundries’ support for DLI-approved companies through the India Foundry Connect program. 
•	
Collaboration between ChipIN Center and Odisha’s O-Chip program to boost fabless design in the state. 
•	
Moschip Technologies unveiled the roadmap for the indigenous VIDYUT chip for smart energy meters. 
•	
NetraSemi and PRAMA India announced a partnership to integrate indigenous chips into CCTV surveillance 
devices.
•	
C-DAC signed MOUs with international partners to advance cryogenic chip design and hybrid quantum computing 
capabilities.
3.3.9.7 	Employment
The semiconductor manufacturing facilities will generate direct employment of more than 25 thousand advanced 
technology jobs and about 60 thousand indirect jobs.
3.3.9.8 	R&D Road map
• 
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) has announced a planned investment of $400 Mn to establish Collaborative 
Engineering Centre in Bangalore. During the initial 5 years. the center would support $2Bn+ of spending and 
create ~500 advanced engineering jobs. This initiative will facilitate R&D collaboration amongst R&D team of 
Applied Materials, Indian academic institutions and R&D team of vendors of Applied Materials. This will also help 
in development and sourcing of components/sub-assemblies required for the AMAT’s semiconductor equipment.
• 
Advanced Micro Devices: Advanced Micro Device (AMD) announced plan to invest approximately $400 Million 
over the next five years to expand Research, Development and Engineering Operations in India. The planned 
investment includes a new AMD campus in Bangalore, Karnataka that will serve as the company’s largest design 
center, as well as the addition of approximately 3,000 new engineering roles by the end of 2028. AMD committed 
to an investment of $73Mn for Year 2024 and $32Mn for Year 2025 as a part of $400Mn investment. It has hired 
980 Engineers, including 22% women. 
• 
Microchip: Microchip Technology announced a $300 million investment plan to expand its operations in India. To 
strengthen its presence in India, the company has inaugurated a new research and development (R&D) facility 
at One Golden Mile Office Tower in Hyderabad. This 168,000-square-foot center, which has a capacity for 1,000 
employees, joins Microchip’s existing developments in Bengaluru and Chennai. Microchip has added more than 
