Skill India:
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
202
Kohima, Gorakhpur, Patna and Srinagar. The Deemed to be University is offering IT and Electronics programs which 
are Research and industry-relevant. The University is offering Doctorate, Post Graduate, Undergraduate and Diploma 
courses across its 11 constituent centres.
It is a pioneering Deemed to be University dedicated to shaping the future through education, innovation, and research. 
Established with a vision to redefine the learning experience, we are committed to nurturing intellectual curiosity and 
fostering creativity. With distinguished and industry professionals as faculty and state-of-the-art facilities and emphasis 
on interdisciplinary learning, we are focused on preparing our students to excel in an ever-evolving technological world. 
The focus of the University is:
•	
To carry out the academic processes in accordance with global standards through active teacher-student-industry 
participation.
•	
To promote research, innovation and entrepreneurship in collaboration with industry, research laboratories and 
academic institutions of global repute.
•	
To inculcate high moral, ethical and professional values amongst our students, faculty & staff.
•	
To contribute in building skillful society.
Five new NIELIT Centres opened at Muzaffarpur (Bihar), Balasore (Odisha), Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh), Lunglei 
(Mizoram), and Daman in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (DNHDD). 
NIELIT Digital University:
The NIELIT Digital University is a virtual learning 
platform created to provide high-quality digital education 
in cutting-edge technologies. NIELIT Digital University 
Platform. The NIELIT Digital University Platform (ndu.
digital) has been developed with the vision of creating 
a world-class, inclusive, affordable, and employment-
oriented digital learning ecosystem. Its purpose is to 
democratize access to high-quality digital education, 
support the goals of Digital India, NEP 2020, and Skill 
India, and build a globally competitive workforce in 
emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, 
Semiconductors, Cyber Security, and Cloud Computing. 
The platform offers NCVET-approved, NSQF-aligned 
programmes with credit transfer through the Academic 
Bank of Credit (ABC), industry-integrated courses, virtual labs, multilingual learning, and verifiable digital certificates. 
With AI-driven tools like career pathways, mentors, interview simulators, and interactive modules, the platform aims to 
empower learners across India, targeting 40 lakh learners by 2030.
The platform is designed to,
• 
Offer flexible online programs in areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity, Data Science, and 
Semiconductors
•	
Include virtual labs for hands-on training in a remote learning format
•	
Strengthen the link between academic training and industry demands through collaborations and 
certifications
This move aims to address the digital divide and create a nationwide talent pool trained in emerging technologies.
Hon’ble Minister, MeitY launches the NIELIT Digital University, a 
platform designed to democratize access to high-quality digital 
education on 2nd October 2025
