Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
292
(iii)	
NIELIT is set to establish permanent campus at Guwahati
On 25th February 2025, during the Advantage Assam 2.0 event, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Assam, Dr. Himanta Biswa 
Sarma, formally handed over the land for NIELIT permanent campus at  Guwahati (under NIELIT deemed to be 
University). The land, located at Jagiroad near the upcoming TATA Semiconductor facility, marks a major milestone in 
advancing digital education and skill development in the region. The ceremony was graced by the presence of Hon’ble 
Union Minister Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw, Dr. Ranoj Pegu, Hon’ble Education Minister of Assam, and witnessed by over 
1000 delegates from industry, academia, and government.
(iv)	
Inauguration of NIELIT Centre of Excellence in Chip Design, Noida
In a significant step toward advancing capabilities in semiconductor design and development, NIELIT’s Centre of 
Excellence (CoE) in Chip Design was inaugurated by Shri S. Krishnan, Secretary, MeitY, at Noida in association with 
SoCTeamup Semiconductors Pvt Ltd, a DPIIT-recognized startup.  The new Centre of Excellence is poised to address 
the growing demand for skilled professionals in the semiconductor and chip design industries by offering state-of-the-art 
facilities for research, innovation, and training in VLSI  and Chip Design.
(v)	
National Conference on Cyber Crime, Digital Forensics and Intelligence
NIELIT has successfully organized a Two-Day National Conference on Cyber Crime, digital Forensics and Intelligence 
under the theme “Cyber Secure Bharat: Fortifying India’s Digital Future” from 25th to 26th July 2024 at Kohima, Nagaland. 
The conference was graced Shri S. Krishnan, IAS, Secretary, MeitY was the Guest of Honour besides other dignitaries. 
The conference brought together experts, practitioners and scholars from across the Northeast region and the rest of 
India, making it a significant platform for dialogue on emerging challenges and advancements in the field of Cybercrime 
digital forensics and intelligence. 
(vi)	
NIELIT’s 3rd International (NICE-DT 2025)
NIELIT has successfully organized its 3rd NIELIT International Conference (NICEDT-2025) on Communication, 
Electronics, and Digital Technologies, which was held at NIELIT Ropar on 14th and 15th February 2025.  The conference, 
which spanned two days, brought together a diverse group of researchers, academicians, industry professionals, and 
students from across the globe to foster knowledge exchange and collaboration in cutting-edge Information, Electronics, 
and Communication Technology (IECT) fields. The conference emphasized the importance of digital innovation, 
sustainable technology, and interdisciplinary collaboration in shaping the future of IECT.
(vii)	 Inauguration of High-End Labs under the Chip to Startup Programme 
On 4th January 2025, Shri. S Krishnan, IAS, Secretary, MeitY inaugurated Digital India RISC-V Embedded System 
Design Lab and Digital India RISC-V Soc Design Lab under Chip to Startup Programme of MeitY at NIELIT Aurangabad 
