Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
93
	
These courses will help in creating Semicon industry ready talent pipeline and will reduce the time gap to make 
students industry ready. 
• 
India is also collaborating with countries overseas for capacity building and Talent development in Semiconductor 
domain. ISM has signed an MoU with Purdue University, to enable collaboration for development of skilled 
workforce (through curation of specific courses/ academic programs), specialized R&D programs. 
• 
Lam Research, USA, Semiconductor Equipment Manufacture announced to train 60,000 workforce in the next 10 
years through its Semiverse Solutions virtual nano-fabrication platform and course customization in collaboration 
with IISc and Indian academic institutions, aiming to expedite India’s semiconductor education and workforce 
development goals. After a successful completion of pilot programme, an MoU has been signed between ISM, 
IISc Bangalore and LAM Research in April 2024, to scale up the training. Under the MoU, a project is being 
implemented to train up to 4800 students in two years.
• 
NIELIT has jointly finalized the course curriculum with Tata Electronics Pvt. Ltd. for skilling manpower in various 
verticals of Semiconductor Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging. NIELIT is planning to roll out these skilling 
programs in its following Centers: Tezpur / Guwahati, Imphal, Agartala, Aurangabad, and Calicut.
• 
The First India-Dutch Semicon School has been conducted over five days, from 9-13th December, 2024 in online 
mode. The program featured 2 or 3 lectures each day, along with a group assignment at the end of the program. 
170 students participated in the program from the following institutions: IIT Delhi, IIT Madras, IIT Guwahati, IIT 
Gandhinagar, Technical University Eindhoven, University of Twente, Technical University Delft.
• 
Proposal on “Upskilling program for Master Trainers in Japan” for training of 50 Indian master trainers in Japan 
was approved at the 158th meeting of the Screening Committee held on 29.08.2025. Under this program, 50 
master trainers will be upskilled in Japan through hands-on training (Technician and Engineer level) at shop 
loor in areas such as Facility management, Fab Operations, Maintenance Engineer, Semiconductor Packaging 
and Testing, Reliability and Failure Analysis. The implementation schedule for the training program of 50 master 
trainers is tentatively planned from May 2026 to March 2028.
3.3.9.6	 Outreach Activities: 
Semicon India Conference 2025:
‘SEMICON India 2025’ Conference has been organized from 2nd –4th September, 2025 with the Theme ‘Building the 
Next Semiconductor Powerhouse’. The event witnessed the super success with over 30,000 attendees, participation 
from 48 countries, and more than 350 companies showcasing innovations. Unique features included country pavilions, 
workforce development sessions, and student mentoring programs. 
 
