
====================================================================================================
MeitY_Annual_Report_2024_25.pdf
====================================================================================================


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 77
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
75
crore, total investment of ` 522.17 crore and total 
employment of 3,879.
7.	
Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of 
Electronic Components and Semiconductors 
(SPECS) 
 
Notified vide Gazette Notification dated April 01, 
2020, the Scheme provides financial incentive of 
25% on capital expenditure for the identified list 
of electronic goods that comprise downstream 
value chain of electronic products, i.e., electronic 
components, semiconductor/ display fabrication 
units, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies 
and capital goods for manufacture of aforesaid 
goods. The scheme promotes development of 
electronic components manufacturing ecosystem 
in the country and deepening of electronics value 
chain and is expected to bring new investments to 
the tune of ` 20,000 crore with total employment 
generation potential (Direct and Indirect) of 
6,00,000. The scheme is closed to receive new 
applications on 31.03.2024.
	
Progress under the scheme till December, 2024 
as per latest Quarterly Progress Report
	
58 applications have been approved with total 
proposed investment of Rs.22,081 crore. As per 
the Quarterly Progress report submitted by the 
applicant total investment done by the approved 
applications is ` 9,481.56 crore. Total production 
done by the approved applications is ` 25,571.59 
crore. Total employment generated by the 
approved applications is 39,092 persons.
8.	
Modified Programme for Development of 
Semiconductors and Display Manufacturing 
Ecosystem in India
	
In furtherance of the vision of AatmaNirbhar Bharat 
and positioning India as the global hub for ESDM, 
a comprehensive program for the development 
of semiconductors and display manufacturing 
ecosystem in India was approved by Government of 
India with an outlay of ` 76,000 crore (>$10 billion). 
The Programme contained various schemes to 
attract investments in the field of semiconductors 
and display manufacturing. The following four 
schemes have been notified under the Semicon 
India Programme: -
8.1	
Modified Scheme for setting up Semiconductor 
Fabs in India
	
•	
The scheme is aimed at attracting large 
investments for setting up semiconductor 
wafer fabrication facilities in the country to 
strengthen the electronics manufacturing 
ecosystem and help establish a trusted val-
ue chain.
	
•	
The Scheme extends a fiscal support of 50% 
of the project cost across the technologyn-
odes for setting up of Silicon based Semi-
conductor Fabs in India.
 
The fiscal support under the scheme shall be 
provided on pari-passu basis for a period of six 
years from the date of approval.
8.2	
Modified Scheme for setting up of Display Fabs 
in India
	
The scheme is aimed at attracting large investments 
for manufacturing TFT LCD or AMOLED based 
display panels in the country to strengthen 
the electronics manufacturing ecosystem. The 
Scheme extends fiscal support of 50% of Project 
Cost for setting up of Display Fabs in India. The 
fiscal support under the scheme shall be provided 
on pari-passu basis for a period of six years from 
the date of approval.
8.3 
Modified Scheme for setting up of Compound 
Semiconductors / Silicon Photonics / Sensors Fab/ 
Discrete Semiconductors Fab and Semiconductor 
Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging 
(ATMP) / OSAT facilities in India
 
The scheme extends a fiscal support of 50% 
of the Capital Expenditure for setting up of 
Compound Semiconductors / Silicon Photonics 
(SiPh) / Sensors (including MEMS) Fab/ Discrete 
Semiconductor Fab and Semiconductor ATMP / 
OSAT facilities in India.
8.4	
Design Linked Incentive (DLI) Scheme
 
• 
‘Design Linked Incentive Scheme’ has been 
notified on 21.12.2021. It shall offer financial 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 78
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Make in India
Annual
2024-2025
76
incentives as well as design infrastructure 
support across various stages of develop-
ment and deployment of semiconductor de-
sign for Integrated Circuits (ICs), Chipsets, 
System on Chips (SoCs), Systems & IP 
Cores and semiconductor linked design.
 
• 
Under the “Product Design Linked Incen-
tive” component of the scheme, reimburse-
ment of up to 50% of the eligible expenditure 
subject to a ceiling of Rs15 crore per appli-
cation will be provided as fiscal support to 
the approved applicants. This shall include 
expenditure relating to design, development, 
testing, fabrication, validation, prototype de-
velopment, product development, filing of 
Intellectual Property Rights etc. It will also 
include manpower costs.
 
• 
Under the “Deployment Linked Incentive” 
component of the scheme, incentive of 6% 
to 4% of net sales turnover over 5 years sub-
ject to a ceiling of ` 30 crore per application 
will be provided to the approved applicants 
whose semiconductor design for Integrated 
Circuits (ICs), Chipsets, System on Chips 
(SoCs), Systems & IP Cores and semicon-
ductor linked design are deployed in elec-
tronic products.
 
• 
C-DAC is the Nodal Agency to implement 
the scheme and establish the semiconduc-
tor design infrastructure such as EDA Tool 
Grid, repository of IP Cores, hardware and 
software licenses, patents and trademarks 
etc.
8.5	
India Semiconductor Mission (ISM)
 
• 
India Semiconductor Mission (ISM) imple-
ments the schemes for Semiconductor and 
Display Fabs, Compound Semiconductor 
Fabs, Silicon Photonics Fabs, MEMS Sen-
sors Fabs, Discrete Semiconductor Fabs 
and Semiconductor Packaging Units (ATMP 
/ OSAT). It drives the long-term strategies for 
the development of semiconductor and dis-
play ecosystem in the country.
 
• 
The India Semiconductor Mission acts as 
the nodal agency for efficient and smooth 
implementation of the schemes for setting 
up of Semiconductor, Display Fabs and 
Compound 
Semiconductors/ATMP/OSAT 
facilities in India.
8.6	
Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL) 
	
The Union Cabinet has also approved that 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology 
will take requisite steps for modernization and 
commercialization of Semi-conductor Laboratory 
(SCL), Mohali. Semi-conductor Laboratory (SCL), 
Mohali has been brought under the administrative 
control of Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology from Department of Space.
	
SCL is an Integrated Device Manufacturer 
which undertakes activities pertaining to design, 
development, fabrication, assembly & packaging, 
testing and quality assurance of Silicon CMOS and 
MEMS Devices for various applications. Presently, 
SCL has two wafer fabrication lines, i.e., 200 mm 
wafer line operating in 180nm CMOS technology 
and 150 mm wafer line for MEMS technology. SCL 
predominantly caters to low volume requirements 
for various applications.
	
Boston Consulting Group (BCG) has been 
engaged for providing consultancy services for 
Modernization of Semi-Conductor Laboratory, 
Mohali. 
8.7	
Projects approved under the Programme:
	
The Government has approved following projects:
	
i.	
Micron Technology Inc.’s proposal for set-
ting up an ATMP facility in India with an in-
vestment of ` 22,516 crore was approved 
in June 2023. Micron’s facility in India will 
enable assembly and test manufacturing 
for both DRAM and NAND products and ad-
dress demand from domestic and interna-
tional markets with a production capacity of 
around 40 million per week.
	
ii.	
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s 
proposal for setting up a Semiconductor Fab 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 79
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
77
facility in India with an investment of ` 91,526 
crore was approved in February 2024. The 
fab facility will be set up in technology part-
nership with PSMC, Taiwan. PSMC is an 
established semiconductor company hav-
ing 6 semiconductor foundries in Taiwan. 
The production capacity of the project would 
be around 50,000 wafer starts per month 
(WSPM). 
	
iii.	
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s 
proposal for setting up of OSAT facility in 
India with an investment of ` 27,120 crores 
was approved in February 2024. The facility 
will use indigenous semiconductor packag-
ing technologies with a production capacity 
of 48 million per day.
	
iv.	
CG Power and Industrial Solutions Limited’s 
proposal for setting up OSAT facility in India 
with an investment of ` 7,584 crore was also 
approved in February 2024. The facility will 
be set up as joint venture partnership with 
Renesas Electronics America Inc., USA, 
and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. The 
technology would be provided for this facil-
ity by Renesas Electronics Corporation, Ja-
pan and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. 
The production capacity would be around 
15.07Million Units per day. 
	
v.	
Kaynes Technology India Limited (KTIL) 
proposal of for setting up of Outsourced 
Semiconductor Assembly and Test (OSAT) 
facility at Sanand, Gujarat for Wire bond In-
terconnect, Substrate Based Packages was 
approved in September, 2024. The Technol-
ogy would be provided by ISO Technology 
Sdn. Bhd. and Aptos Technology Inc. This 
facility will be setup with an investment of ` 
3,307 crore. The facility will have the capac-
ity to produce more than 6.33 Million chips 
per day.
	
vi.	
51 start-ups and MSMEs companies have 
been approved for design infrastructure sup-
port under the DLI Scheme made available 
by ChipIN Centre at C-DAC Bengaluru. Out 
of these, 17 companies have also been ap-
proved for financial support for developing 
semiconductor chip/ SoCs for applications in 
sectors such as automotive, mobility, com-
puting, communications etc namely - DV2JS 
Innovation LLP­, Vervesemi Microelectron-
ics, Fermionic Design, Morphing Machines, 
Calligo Technologies, Sensesemi Technolo-
gies, Saankhya Labs, Aryabhata Circuits and 
Research Labs, BigEndian Semiconductors, 
C2i Semiconductors, Aheesa Digital Innova-
tions, Mindgrove Technologies, InCore Sem-
iconductors, Netrasemi, Green PMU Semi, 
WiSig Networks, MosChip Technologies.
8.8	
Employment: The semiconductor manufacturing 
facilities will generate direct employment of about 
25 thousand advanced technology jobs and about 
60 thousand indirect jobs. 
3.4	
Investment Promotion to Attract Investment in 
ESDM Sector	
3.4.1	 Promotion of PLI, SPECS, EMC 2.0 and 
Schemes for Development of Semiconductors and 
Display Manufacturing Ecosystem in India
To stimulate more investment in the Electronics 
System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) sector in 
India, several investment promotion initiatives have 
been launched. In addition, these initiatives are aimed 
at creating a world-class semiconductor and display 
manufacturing ecosystem, these efforts also include the 
introduction of significant schemes like the PLI Scheme 
2.0 for IT Hardware. Further, thorough outreach plan that 
includes online meetings with possible investors and in-
depth presentations outlining the advantages of these 
programs were conducted. To address the concerns and 
establish a clear investment path, high-level discussions 
were arranged, including direct interactions between 
company representatives and senior officials from MeitY. 
As a result of these promotional efforts, India is now 
seen as a potential ESDM destination and have greatly 
increased awareness and interest in the international 
industry.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 80
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Make in India
Annual
2024-2025
78
3.4.2	 Advocacy and Outreach Programmes
A stakeholder Meeting on “Empowering Industries: 
Unlocking Tomorrow’s Potential with PLI Schemes” 
was held at Bharat Mandapam in February 2024 in the 
presence of Hon’ble Commerce and Industries Minister 
(CIM). This event highlighted Electronics PLI Scheme’s 
insights and achievements. The gathering shed light on 
the insights and accomplishments of the Electronics PLI 
Scheme, showcasing its significant contributions and 
promising prospects for the future.
The 4th Electronics Supply Chain Summit was, held in 
Noida in collaboration with ELCINA. The B2B forum 
had participation of over 200 delegates from 100+ 
companies. This business development program aimed 
to strengthen local manufacturing of Components, EMS, 
Semiconductor Products & Modules,  and product 
segments including  Mobiles &  Accessories, Consumer 
Electronics, Lighting Equipment, Auto Electronics/
EVs, Security Products, IT products among others.
ICEA organised the conference on “Sub-Assemblies 
& Components
The Next Phase of Growth in India’s Electronics 
Manufacturing” in New Delhi to chart out the roadmap 
for increasing Domestic Value Addition (DVA) in Indian 
Electronics.
Semicon India Conference 2024 (11-13 September 
2024)
SEMICON India 2024, held from September 11-13 at the 
India Exposition Mart Ltd. (IEML) in Greater Noida, Delhi 
NCR, was a pivotal event spotlighting the rapid growth of 
India’s semiconductor ecosystem and emerging industry 
trends. Inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, 
it brought together global leaders, industry experts, 
academia, and government officials to explore cutting-
edge innovations in areas such as smart manufacturing, 
supply chain optimization, sustainability, and workforce 
development. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 81
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
79
With over 263 exhibitors and 45,000 in-person 
attendees, it established itself as one of Southeast 
Asia’s premier platforms for showcasing advancements 
in semiconductors and electronics. Representatives 
from Applied Materials, Cadence, CG Power, KLA, Lam 
Research, Micron, NXP, Renesas, TATA Electronics, 
Tokyo Electron, SiLT, KAS Technologies, Western 
Digital, DISCO, Merck, Jacobs, and many other industry 
leaders attended the event.
3.4.3	 Outreach Activities for Shifting Global Value 
Chain
As part of MeitY’s ongoing outreach efforts, several 
interactions were organized with industry stakeholders 
to raise awareness about the PLI Scheme 2.0 for IT 
Hardware. These engagements aimed to encourage 
companies to localize their manufacturing processes 
in alignment with the newly introduced scheme, with a 
focus on boosting domestic production and creating 
employment opportunities within the IT hardware 
sector. Meetings with the applicants of PLI Scheme 
(IT Hardware & LSEM) to discuss investment plans, 
progress and challenges were conducted time to time by 
senior officials of MeitY 
International Collaborations and Business Delegation 
Visits
A Taiwan Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ 
Association (TEEMA) delegation called-on Secretary on 
8th August, 2024. The discussions during the meeting 
focused on the way forward for India-Taiwan collaboration, 
fostering innovation and support technological growth in 
the electronics sector. 
MeitY officials held discussion with delegation from 
Foxconn led by Dr. Young Liu, Chairman, Foxconn about 
Foxconn’s plan for development of electronics ecosystem 
including Semiconductors in India on 14th August, 2024.
• 
3rd India-Taiwan CEOs Roundtable Meeting & 2024 
India-Taiwan Industrial Collaboration Summit was 
held along with FICCI in partnership with TAITRA, 
TEEMA & CNFI at New Delhi. Joint Secretary 
(Electronics) Shri Sushil Pal addressed the session 
wherein he highlighted that the global winds of 
trade dynamics present an opportune window for 
leapfrogging India-Taiwan industrial partnership 
to the next level.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 82
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Make in India
Annual
2024-2025
80
• 
Indo-US Task Force for Electronics – 2nd 
Roundtable of Indo-US Task force was held on 4th 
October 2024 in association with ICEA comprising 
Industry leaders in the sector to boost and elevate 
electronics trade between India and USA to approx. 
$100 Bn within a decade from the current $13 Bn 
figure. 
3.4.4	 National Level Events & Facilitations
Task Force on Making India an Electronics & 
Semiconductor Product Nation
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, 
Government of India constituted a Task Force under the 
chairmanship of Prof. Ajay K. Sood, Principal Scientific 
Advisor to the Govt. of India to achieve the objectives 
of making India a product developer and manufacturer 
nation. The Task Force, consisting of members from both 
Industry and Government, had detailed deliberations 
and identified following potential areas where strategic 
initiatives are required to make India an Electronics & 
Semiconductor Product Nation:
(i) 
identification of products (with B2B and B2C 
perspectives)
(ii)	
Components and sub-systems other than chips
(iii)	
Chip requirement for India (Chips for All)
(iv)	
Policy, Regulations, Taxation and Tariffs, EoDB, 
Competitiveness
Numerous other Industry consultation sessions and 
one-to one meeting with ESDM companies were also 
conducted to understand the issues being faced by them.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 83
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
81
3.4.5	 International Events & Facilitations
• 
Outreach 
engagements 
held 
with 
Indian 
Consulates/ 
Embassies/ 
High 
Commissions 
in other countries for promoting the schemes 
launched by MeitY.
• 
MeitY participated in various Investment Promotion 
Roadshows organized by other Ministries like 
DPIIT to Taiwan, Korea, Japan, Singapore etc.
• 
MeitY also contributed to international engagements 
like G20, India-EU TTC, India-Taiwan Cooperation 
Forum, 
World 
Economic 
Forum, 
Industrial 
Collaboration Working Group (ICWG) between 
India and Taiwan (ICWG), India-Japan Industrial 
Competitiveness Partnership (IJICP)
3.4.6	 Social Media Participation
To reach out to all ESDM stakeholders, all the events, 
webinars were widely promoted on X (erstwhile Twitter) 
through the official handle (Electronics Gol) of the IPHW 
Division of MeitY. 
3.4.6.1 International Collaborations in the field of 
Semiconductors
MoU with Singapore: Government of India has recently 
signed an MoU with Singapore to establish an “India-
Singapore Semiconductor Ecosystem Policy Dialogue”. 
The Policy Dialogue will be used as a platform to:
• 
Discuss semiconductor supply chain related 
issues;
• 
Exchange best practices to leverage opportunities 
for growth in the global semiconductor industry;
• 
Explore areas for mutually beneficial semiconductor 
R&D collaboration; 
• 
Encourage collaboration between Singapore-
based 
and 
India-based 
companies 
towards 
mutually beneficial semiconductor related business 
opportunities and partnerships;
• 
Consider initiatives to enhance semiconductor 
supply chain resilience, based on areas of 
mutual strength such as fabs, packaging, design, 
equipment, 
specialty 
chemicals 
and 
gases, 
semiconductor grade materials;
• 
Promote 
Industrial 
Parks 
and 
workforce 
development for mutual benefit.
Building on the Semiconductor MoU, the first India-
Singapore Semiconductor Ecosystem Policy Dialogue, 
co-chaired by Secretary, MeitY, Shri S Krishnan & 
Permanent Secretary, MTI, was held in November,2024.
3.4.6.2	 Capacity building and talent development for 
semiconductors
New curriculums have been launched by AICTE at UG, 
Diploma level as a step towards creation of Talent pool 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 84
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Make in India
Annual
2024-2025
82
in Semiconductor design and Manufacturing domain. 
Curriculums at Diploma, UG and PG level have been 
adopted by more than 625 colleges and institutes with 
approved intake of 16,307 students. These courses at 
Diploma and UG level will drastically reduce the time 
gap to make students industry ready. Semiconductor 
design and technology specific curriculums in Diploma 
and Engineering, have been designed according to 
Semiconductor industry needs. 
ISM has signed an MoU with Purdue University, to 
enable collaboration for development of skilled workforce 
(through curation of specific courses/ academic 
programs), specialized R&D programs, collaboration for 
funding/ grants support.
Lam 
Research, 
USA, 
Semiconductor 
Equipment 
Manufacture has announced to train 60,000 workforce 
in the next 10 years through its Semiverse Solution 
virtual platform in collaboration with Indian academic 
institutions, aiming to expedite India’s semiconductor 
education and workforce development goals.
3.4.7	 R&D Road map
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) has announced a planned 
investment of $400 Mn to establish Collaborative 
Engineering Centre in Bangalore. During the initial 5 
years. the center would support $2Bn+ of spending and 
create ~500 advanced engineering jobs. This initiative 
will facilitate R&D collaboration amongst R&D team of 
Applied Materials, Indian academic institutions and 
R&D team of vendors of Applied Materials. This will 
also help in development and sourcing of components/
sub-assemblies required for the AMAT’s semiconductor 
equipment.
3.5	
 Measures to facilitate Ease of Doing Business:
Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC), 
Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance has 
decided to exempt the Electronics and Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Sector from application of Section 65A of 
the Customs Act.
3.6	
Other programs
Compulsory Safety Standards for Electronics
The “Electronics and Information Technology Goods 
(Requirements for Compulsory Registration) Order, 
2012” was notified on 3rd  October, 2012 under the 
Compulsory Registration Scheme notified by Bureau of 
Indian Standards (BIS) under the ambit of the BIS Act, 
1986, to ensure the    safety of Indian consumers and 
curb the inflow of substandard electronic products. The 
Order has been migrated to BIS Act 2016 as “Electronics 
and Information Technology Goods (Requirement of 
Compulsory Registration) Order, 2021”. The Order 
necessitates   creation   of   an institutional   mechanism  
for    developing    and    mandating    standards    and 
certification for electronic products to strengthen 
Conformity Assessment infrastructure nationwide. As 
per the provisions of the Order,  before manufacturing, 
import, sale, stock etc of the products notified under 
the schedule of the Order, the products need to be 
registered with BIS based on testing of the notified 
product at BIS recognized laboratories as per the Indian 
Standards. The registration is granted to a manufacturer 
for manufacturing a product at a particular location. 
The Compulsory Registration Scheme has resulted in 
high compliance of notified electronic goods to Indian 
safety standards and more than 45,000 registrations have 
been granted by BIS to manufacturing units covering 
approximately 4,00,000 products models/series.
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) 
Order 2017
Government has issued Public Procurement (Preference 
to Make in India) [PPP-MII] Order 2017 vide the 
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal 
Trade (DPIIT) Order No. P-45021/2/2017-B.E.-II dated 
15.06.2017 with subsequent revisions dated 28.05.2018, 
29.05.2019, 04.06.2020, 16.09.2020 and 19.07.2024 to 
encourage ‘Make in India’ and to promote manufacturing 
and production of goods, services and works in India with 
a view to enhancing income and employment. 
In furtherance of the aforesaid revised Order, MeitY has 
notified mechanism for calculating local content for 14 
Electronic Products dated 07.09.2020 and 06.03.2024 
viz., (i) Desktop PCs, (ii) Thin Clients, (iii) Computer 
Monitors, (iv) Laptop PCs, (v) Tablet PCs, (vi) Dot 
Matrix Printers, (vii) Contact and Contactless Smart 
Cards, (viii) LED Products, (ix) Biometric Access Control 
/ Authentication Devices, (x) Biometric Finger Print 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 90
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
International Cooperation
Annual
2024-2025
88
of IT professionals, representing these issues at global 
forums.
Through these efforts, MeitY aims to strengthen India’s 
position as a key player in the global digital economy, 
promoting its ICT capabilities while ensuring that the 
country’s interests and expertise are well-reflected in 
international collaborations.
4.2	
Multilateral Cooperation
To protect its national interests and advance its digital 
transformation on the global stage, MeitY has been 
actively engaging with various multilateral forums. 
These efforts involve collaboration, negotiations, and 
addressing technical and policy challenges with key 
international forums/organizations like the G20, G7, 
BRICS, SCO, WTO, UN-ESCAP, BIMSTEC, World 
Bank, ADB, Commonwealth, IPU, ITU, ASEAN, SAARC, 
OECD, IPEF, QUAD, and others in the IT, software, and 
electronics sectors.
India’s participation in various international forums 
highlights its commitment to driving digital progress and 
fostering partnerships with global stakeholders. Through 
these forums, India showcases its achievements, 
explores opportunities for collaboration, and strengthens 
its influence in shaping the global digital economy. 
4.3	
Key Achievements
Brazil’s G20 Presidency 2024: MeitY represented 
India in the G20 Digital Economy Working Group and 
Ministerial meetings under the Brazilian Presidency 
in 2024 to discuss four priority areas i.e. Digital 
Inclusion, Universal and Meaningful Connectivity; Digital 
Government and Inclusive Digital Public Infrastructure; 
Integrity of Information Online and Trust in the Digital 
Economy; and Artificial Intelligence for Inclusive 
Sustainable Development and Inequality Reduction. 
MeitY negotiated the key issues and put forth the DPI 
agenda agreed under the Indian Presidency in 2023. 
The G20 Digital Economy Maceió Ministerial Declara-
tion on Digital Inclusion for All, was ultimately adopted 
during the Digital Economy Ministers Meeting (DEMM) 
which reiterates the priorities of the Working Group and 
strengthens commitments on the proposed deliverables 
on Universal and Meaningful Connectivity, Governance 
of Digital Identity, Data access and data sharing, Infor-
mation Integrity and Trust, and AI for good and for all. 
WEF’s Annual Meeting 2024: The 54th World Economic 
Forum (WEF) Annual Meeting held in Davos, Switzerland, 
from January 15-19, 2024, provided a significant platform 
for India to showcase its digital initiatives and strengthen 
global partnerships in the technology sector. The Hon’ble 
Minister of Electronics and Information Technology 
was part of the Indian government delegation and 
actively participated in various sessions and roundtable 
discussions with global political and business leaders. 
The Minister emphasized India’s strategic focus on 
driving economic growth through investments in digital 
and physical infrastructure, semiconductor, electronics 
manufacturing, 
and 
inclusive 
development. 
The 
engagements included advancing India’s semiconductor 
program, fostering AI development, and establishing 
partnerships with various global firms. India’s leadership 
in building resilient supply chains and advancing Digital 
Public Infrastructure (DPI) was prominently highlighted 
during the WEF sessions.
The 3rd Voice of Global South Summit (VOGSS 3.O): 
The 3rd Voice of Global South Summit (VOGSS 3.O) 
was convened virtually on August 17, 2024, with the 
overarching theme, “An Empowered Global South for a 
Sustainable Future”, to deliberate on the Global South’s 
priorities and the solutions that could emerge from 
partner countries in the developing world. It also served 
as a platform to discuss ideas and solutions from the 
Global South on various developmental priorities.
During the summit a session for Information & Technology 
Ministers themed “DPIs for Development - A Global 
South Approach,” was chaired by Secretary, MeitY. This 
session focused on leveraging DPIs for development, 
particularly from the perspective of the Global South. 
Secretary, MeitY shared use-case examples of India’s 
DPI models in bringing about efficiencies and better 
governance, achieving SDGs and ensuring last-mile 
delivery. Participants agreed on the need to enhance 
interoperability among global DPI models, encourage 
sharing of best-practices, build trust among diverse 
stakeholders in the digital ecosystem, and encourage 
private and public innovation and competition to provide 
viable DPI options to Global South countries. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 91
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
International Cooperation
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
89
The Second G7 Ministers’ Meeting on Industry and 
Technological Innovation: Secretary, MeitY, led India 
at the Second G7 Ministers’ Meeting on Industry and 
Technological Innovation in Rome, Italy, on October 
10, 2024. He highlighted India’s commitments through 
electronics and semiconductor initiatives, the DPI 
approach, and the responsible use of AI for a globally 
digitally inclusive society.
The 2024 Annual Members Meeting organized by 
the Digital Public Goods Alliance (DPGA): MeitY 
participated in the 2024 Annual Members Meeting 
organized by the Digital Public Goods Alliance (DPGA) 
from November 13–15, 2025, in Singapore. The event 
provided valuable insights into enhancing India’s DPI 
initiatives and ensuring alignment with global standards 
and best practices.
4.4	
Bilateral Cooperation
With the Government’s outlook on Digital diplomacy, 
Digital Economy and the launch of the Digital India 
Programme, MeitY has synergized its efforts to expand the 
IT and electronics sector globally including diversification 
of geographies, domain expertise, and highly skilled 
workforce to enhance business opportunities. Efforts 
have also been made to evolve strategic cooperation with 
potential foreign partners in emerging and frontier areas 
of Information and Communication Technology. The 
Ministry regularly engages with various Governments 
including academic and industry bodies to forge 
partnerships for mutual progress, and also provide an 
opportunity for the sharing of knowledge and experience. 
The International Cooperation Division has been involved 
in the following tasks:
• 
Aligning foreign collaboration activities in India’s 
‘Digital India program’ and ‘Make in India’ initiatives 
of the Government of India.
• 
Creating a conducive environment for international 
cooperation to help industries to cooperate with the 
industries of other countries. 
• 
Fostering, encouraging and promoting research 
and development in the application of information 
technology related facilities.
• 
Initiating joint projects like IT institutes, software 
parks, programmes for joint R&D and facilitating IT 
Advisers etc. 
• 
Showcasing India’s ICT strength across the globe 
by organizing, sponsoring and participating in trade 
fairs, symposiums, exhibitions etc. 
The International Cooperation Division of this Ministry 
has been pursuing the above objectives through 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs), Joint Working 
Groups (JWG) meetings, Projects in other geographies/
countries, participating in major international events 
to showcase India’s strength and enhance business 
opportunity for Indian IT Industries. The division has also 
spearheaded the negotiations on Digital Trade chapter 
under various forums/ Free Trade Agreements (FTAs). 
To 
strengthen 
cooperation 
with 
other 
emerging 
economies, the MoUs/ Agreements in the field of Digital 
technologies and Semiconductor were signed with the 
Malaysia, Singapore and UAE. Further, in order to expand 
India’s Digital capabilities in Digital Public Infrastructure 
(DPIs), MeitY has signed  MoUs on cooperation in the 
field of sharing successful digital solutions implemented 
at population scale for digital transformation with the 
9 recipient countries - Cuba, Colombia, Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic, Saint Kitts & Nevis, Ethiopia, 
Jamaica, Gambia, Fiji and Guyana. 
4.4.1 Major bilateral engagements
1.	
A meeting between India and Estonia was held 
on 9 January 2024 in New Delhi. The Estonian 
side expressed interest in renewing the MoU and 
indicated a desire to collaborate in the fields of AI, 
HPC, startups, e-health, and cybersecurity. 
2.	
A meeting between MeitY and the French 
Ambassador for Digital Affairs was held on 22 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 92
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
International Cooperation
Annual
2024-2025
90
February 2024. The focus areas of the meeting 
included DPI and the achievements of the G20 in 
promoting DPIs, AI, India’s presidency of the GPAI, 
and the Digital Personal Data Protection Act.
3.	
A meeting between the co-chairs of the Indo-French 
Joint Working Group for Digital Technology was 
held virtually on March 22, 2024. The focus areas 
of discussion included cooperation in emerging 
technologies, specifically Artificial Intelligence, 
Quantum Computing, semiconductors, startup 
innovation, and DPI.
4.	
The Hon’ble MEIT visited Doha, Qatar, on 27 
February 2024, where he addressed a session on 
‘Digital Public Infrastructure’ during Web Summit 
Qatar 2024. During the visit, the Hon’ble MEIT also 
engaged in bilateral meetings with the Chairman 
of the Qatar Investment Authority, the Minister of 
Transport, and the Minister of Communications 
and IT, met with about 100 business leaders from 
India and Qatar, and participated in a community 
engagement event.
5.	
A team of journalists from the Central Europe 
region met Secretary, MeitY, on March 15, 2024. 
The Secretary informed the delegation about the 
establishment of three semiconductor units under 
the ‘Development of Semiconductors and Display 
Manufacturing Ecosystems in India’ initiative, as 
well as developments in Digital Public Infrastructure 
(DPI).
6.	
The Joint Secretary (ICD), MeitY, virtually 
participated in the 3rd Summit for Democracy in 
Seoul, Republic of Korea, on March 18, 2024. He 
briefed participants about the Digital India initiative, 
India’s DPI approach to digital transformation and 
development, initiatives on AI in India, and the 
Social Impact Fund (SIF) for accelerating DPI 
implementation across Global South nations. 
7.	
A seminar on “Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI): 
Empowering Nations for the Digital Era” was held 
on March 26, 2024, to explore the transformative 
potential of DPI in enabling seamless service deliv-
ery, empowering communities through inclusivity, 
and enriching economies by driving innovation. 
8.	
Bilateral meetings with the Government of Sri 
Lanka on digital transformation took place on 
March 27, 2024, in Colombo, Sri Lanka. MeitY 
participated and shared insights and experiences 
from India’s success story with DPI, along with 
global and regional perspectives. 
9.	
A meeting between India and Vietnam was held 
on May 15, 2024, at New Delhi. The discussions 
focused on cooperation in data center development 
in Vietnam, as well as collaboration in cybersecurity, 
artificial intelligence, emerging technologies, and 
the startup ecosystem.
10.	
Several meetings were held between India and 
Japan to discuss UPI deployment in Japan. India 
provided a presentation on the infrastructure, 
operational aspects, and use cases to apprise the 
Japanese side about the concept of UPI. Further, 
India and Japan also discussed collaboration 
focused on the semiconductor ecosystem, artificial 
intelligence, and the India-Japan Digital Partnership 
(IJDP).
11.	
The Embassy of India organized a seminar titled 
“Building Digital Bridges: India-Japan Digital 
Partnership” on September 30, 2024, in which MeitY 
virtually participated and delivered a presentation 
on India’s digital transformation journey and 
potential areas of cooperation between India and 
Japan in the digital sector.
12.	
Secretary, MeitY participated in the Session on 
“Investment: Economic Prospects in India” during 
the 3rd India- Japan Forum on December 06, 2024 
in New Delhi.
13.	
A meeting between India and Uzbekistan was held 
on July 17, 2024. The discussions focused on 
DPI, the IT and startup ecosystem, and exploring 
potential partnerships in IT education, including 
skill development initiatives.
14.	
On July 26, 2024, a team of journalists from 
Nepal visited MeitY and had a conversation 
with Secretary, MeitY about the growth of the 
Electronics Manufacturing Ecosystem in India, DPI, 
and various capacity-building programs carried out 
by NIELIT. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 93
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
International Cooperation
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
91
15.	
Under the framework of the MoU on Semiconductor, 
the 1st India-Singapore Semiconductor Policy 
Dialogue was held on November 5, 2024 in New 
Delhi. Discussions emphasized India’s initiative 
and Singapore’s expertise in supply chains, 
R&D, and workforce development. Key priorities 
included skill development, joint R&D in advanced 
packaging, compound semiconductors, and trade 
optimization.
16.	
The India-US Information and Communications 
Technology Working Group (ICTWG) Meeting was 
held at Sushma Swaraj Bhawan on October 17, 
2024. The meeting, in which the Secretary, MeitY, 
and the US Ambassador to India participated, saw 
fruitful discussions on varied topics, including IT/
IT-enabled services, digital talent, cross-border 
data flows, data privacy, collaboration in AI, 
semiconductor and electronics manufacturing, and 
telecommunications. 
17.	
A virtual meeting of the Technology and IT Joint 
Working Group, co-chaired by India and Saudi 
Arabia under the Economy and Investment Pillar 
of the Strategic Partnership Council, was held 
on October 14, 2024. MeitY also participated in 
the 5th Senior Officials Meeting of the Economy 
and Investment Committee under the Strategic 
Partnership Council, held on October 17, 2024, at 
NITI Aayog.
18.	
MeitY virtually participated in a panel discussion 
on “Deep Dive Digital Dialogues: Results, 
Opportunities, and Prospects for International 
Cooperation in Digital Policy” during the 17th 
Federal Government Digital Summit, Germany, on 
October 22, 2024. The panel discussion focused 
on AI, DPI, digital literacy, and cybersecurity.
19.	
On November 7, 2024, the 8th session of the Indo-
Russia Joint Working Group on ICT Cooperation, 
co-chaired by the Secretary, MeitY, and Russia’s 
Deputy Minister of Digital Development, was held. 
Discussions during the meeting covered IT/ITeS, 
ESDM, telecom, cybersecurity, digital governance, 
and digital education.
4.4.2	 International Projects 
To showcase India’s prowess in the electronics and IT 
sector and emerging technologies, MeitY has initiated 
joint projects with various countries. Also, MeitY has been 
assisting the Ministry of External Affairs in executing a 
number of projects in developing and least-developed 
countries. Under such initiatives, number of Centers of 
Excellence in IT, IT Parks, Capacity Building Institutes, 
telemedicine & tele-education facilities, e-networks 
have been established. The following projects are under 
execution and initiated during the year:
1.	
High-performance 
Computing: 
India 
and 
EU launched a joint call for proposal on HPC 
applications under the signed Intent of Cooperation 
(IoC) on High Performance Computing (HPC), 
Weather Extremes & Climate Modeling and 
Quantum Technologies. 
2.	
India-Argentina 
Centre 
of 
Excellence 
in 
Information Technology (IA-CEIT) set up by 
C-DAC Delhi with financial assistance from the 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 102
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Innovate and Design in India
Annual
2024-2025
100
 
Test set-up for Digital Baseband Phase I
Further, tape-out and successful testing of the subblocks 
of the RF front end have been conducted. The team 
has published 2 IEEE transactions, 2 IEEE international 
conference papers and 2 MDPI journals based on the 
work done.  
Development of signal and channel models, circuits, 
and antennas for Next Generation wireless systems 
with emphasis on vehicular communication
Millimetre wave (mmWave) research in India is still 
in its early stages. The objective of the project is to 
design and develop integrated circuits for mmWave 
communication, establishing mmWave characterization 
facilities and building expertise in Complementary 
Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS) - based mmWave 
design and implementation. The focus is on designing, 
implementing, and characterizing CMOS mmWave 
circuits and systems, specifically targeting the n260 
band (37–40 GHz). Two complete Transmitter (Tx) – 
Receiver (Rx) front-ends consisting of a power amplifier 
(PA), low noise amplifier (LNA) and Transmitter switch 
were designed in 65nm CMOS process, fabricated and 
tested. A transceiver consisting of PA, LNA, Transmit/
Receive switch, mixer, Intermediate Frequency (IF) 
amplifier, phase shifter, Local Oscillator (LO) buffer and 
In-phase and Quadrature (IQ) generation circuit has 
been designed and fabricated and testing is in progress.
Chip Micrograph of complete  
T/R Front End at 39GHz
Chip Micrograph of Injection locked  
oscillator at 39 GHz 
Chip Micrograph of Phased Array at 39GHz
5G+/6G Converged Terrestrial and Satellite IOT (5G+/6G-
sIoT): The project has made significant advancements 
in Satcom and terrestrial communication convergence, 
achieving key milestones such as developing 3GPP Rel-
17compliant Satcom IoT systems. L-band NB-IoT SoC 
to support GEO satellites has also been successfully 
developed which enables a plethora of low-bit rate 
satellite IoT applications.
Furthermore, the project has contributed to the ITU 
WP 5D IMT-2030 Framework Document by integrating 
Satcom as a key interworking feature in IMT-2030. The 
notable achievements include the development of link 
and system simulators, integration of NB-IoT features, 
successful π/2-BPSK waveform simulations, and the 
completion of L2/L3 for 5G NR NTN gNB and UE. 
Additionally, the team has enhanced its 5G base station 
(BS) and user equipment (UE) testbeds to support 
Satcom by designing advanced L1/L2/3 algorithms 
and protocols and has successfully filed 17 patents 
focused on advancements in 5G terrestrial and non-
terrestrial technologies. These patents cover areas such 
as waveforms, physical layer (PHY) enhancements, 
scheduler features, and more.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Innovate and Design in India
Annual
2024-2025
102
are easily obstructed. High-power Radio Frequency (RF) 
amplifiers address these challenges by boosting signals 
for seamless backhaul and fronthaul communication.
This project focuses on optimizing high-power RF 
amplifiers for mmWave applications in the V-band and 
these solutions are vital for rural areas, bridging the 
digital divide and supporting essential services like 
healthcare, education, and e-governance. Channel 
models which predict signal behavior to determine the 
required RF power and bandwidth, balancing output, 
efficiency, and challenges like path loss and interference 
were carried out. High-power, wideband linear amplifiers 
were designed. Printed patch antennas on Rogers 
substrate and low temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC) 
antennas for point-to-multipoint (fronthaul) and point-to-
point (backhaul) connectivity and conical horn antenna 
for point-to-point (backhaul) connectivity were fabricated.
Fabricated antenna prototype with  
high frequency connector
Fabricated antenna prototype for  
MIMO Implementation
Designed Conical horn antenna
Design of Efficient and Secure Internet-of-Things 
(IoT) Communication Framework in Context of 
Content-Centric Network (CCN) using Elliptic Curve 
Cryptography (ECC) – A Next-Generation Smart 
Communication Technology: The following have been 
developed under the project:
1.	
ECC-Based Secure Handshake Protocol for 
Multicasting in CCN-IoT Environment is designed 
for secure communication in IoT data broadcasting 
and multicasting.
Handshake Protocol for Multicasting
2.	
Content-Centric Network-based Internet of Medical 
Things for Remote Patient Monitoring is developed 
for smart health monitoring in Content-Centric 
Networking (CCN).
IoMT for Remote Patient Monitoring
3. 
An 
Efficient 
Authentication 
and 
Content 
Dissemination Scheme for CCN-based IoMT in 
Remote Health Monitoring System is designed for 
secure remote healthcare management system 
integrated with CCN-based IoT and edge devices.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 107
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
105
Testbed at IIT Delhi: Depiction of Xbee devices to play the 
role of base stations for implementing  
Federated Learning
On-chip Control of Polarization and Delay in Arrayed 
Waveguide Grating” implemented by IIT Indore: A 
platform for on-chip polarization control has been 
designed and optimized, demonstrating significant 
modal birefringence variation with rib thickness and 
biased voltages, achieving a change of 0.022 at 10 V for 
an 800 nm optimized waveguide. A nanophotonic ring 
resonator embedded in a hybrid plasmonic waveguide 
has been analyzed, presenting a comb-like structure 
that enables an ultra-large group delay. A chip-scale 
ring resonator with ITO-based vertical coupling has 
been developed to enhance nonlinear optical properties 
through electron heating, improving the refractive index 
and enabling high-speed optical data communication. 
Additionally, an AWG integrated with a ring resonator 
has been fabricated, achieving improved wavelength 
selectivity and a 5% reduction in crosstalk, with further 
work ongoing to develop an AWG with a shared free 
spectral region.
Schematic of the Developed AWG Device
Design and Development of a Millimeter-wave based Road 
Condition Detection Radar for Automotive Application 
implemented by TCE Madurai: The configuration and 
evaluation of mm-wave radar sensor boards and data 
capture boards were carried out to adapt the existing 
radar module to specific requirements. The integrated 
antenna and beamforming were simulated and tailored 
to effectively target road surfaces. Comprehensive 
theoretical analyses and simulations of signal processing 
algorithms, along with the development of enhanced 
data processing techniques, were performed to enable 
the radar to detect various road conditions, including 
potholes and speed breakers, under diverse climatic 
conditions. The integration of radar boards, data 
capture systems, and data processing was implemented 
on an Embedded C FPGA platform, with the output 
displayed on a Python-based GUI, followed by rigorous 
experimental evaluation. Additionally, a radome was 
designed, subjected to mechanical stress and vibration 
analysis, and developed to house the integrated radar 
system. The project culminated in the development of a 
complete end-to-end radar hardware prototype, which 
was experimentally validated on cars and two-wheelers 
across different environmental conditions.
5.1.2.2	 Artificial Intelligence & Emerging Technology 
Promoting 
the 
Adoption 
of 
Cutting-edge 
Technologies to Create Significant Economic and 
Societal Impact
India is now prepping for cutting-edge technologies 
including 5G, AI, blockchain, augmented reality & 
virtual reality, machine learning & deep learning, 
robots, natural language processing, etc. These will be 
critical in the government and industry, for planning or 
decision-making, expediting development or analyzing 
deployment, issue solving or product creation, detecting 
new trends or drawing out linkages and associations.
The Emerging Technologies Division of MeitY is 
responsible for fostering and promoting the utilization of 
cutting-edge technologies in the country. The Division is 
supporting work for policy/ strategy papers in emerging 
areas like AI, AR/VR, IoT, blockchain, robotics, computer 
vision, drones, etc.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 108
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Innovate and Design in India
Annual
2024-2025
106
Initiatives by MeitY in Emerging Technologies
Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Internet of Things 
(IoTs) (Gandhinagar, Bengaluru, Gurugram & Vizag)
Under the Digital India initiatives, MeitY along with 
NASSCOM and state governments has set up CoE 
on IoTs at Bengaluru, Gurugram, Gandhi Nagar and 
Visakhapatnam. First Centre on IoT was established 
in Bengaluru in 2016 along with the Government of 
Karnataka and NASSCOM. One of the objectives of 
these centres is to enable India emerge as an innovation 
hub in IoT through democratization of innovation and 
realization of prototypes. The CoE, supported by 
Government and industry is a nationwide platform for 
innovation sandbox to enable technology adoption 
and innovation, and to develop a culture of cocreation 
in 
Industry 
4.0, 
manufacturing, 
automotive 
and 
transportation, life sciences and healthcare, Agriculture 
and other industry verticals and horizontals. More than 
490 startups have been enrolled, 102 societal projects 
have been undertaken, and 110 IPs filed.
Centre of Excellence on Virtual & Augmented 
Reality (VARCoE) at IIT Bhubaneswar
Virtual & Augmented Reality (AR&VR) have massive 
innovation potential across a wide range of industries 
and research elds. With an objective to explore the 
opportunities in this niche area, Software Technology 
Parks of India in partnership with MeitY, Government 
of Odisha, IIT Bhubaneshwar and a philanthropist has 
established Centre of Entrepreneurship for VARCoE at 
IIT Bhubaneswar. It undertakes world-class research, 
develop state-of-the art testing facility/ laboratories 
for advanced algorithms, applications and methods 
in aid of AR&VR for immersive visualization in areas 
including skill development, product design, healthcare, 
art & architecture, transport, construction, tourism, 
entertainment, 
education 
& 
productivity 
software. 
Presently nine major projects on AR&VR applications 
in various domains involving 15 highly qualified faculty 
and researchers of IIT Bhubaneshwar are in progress. 
VARCoE has also supported 26 startups so far.
Centre of Excellence on Gaming, VFX, Computer 
Vision & AI at Hyderabad
This CoE has been set up in collaboration with MeitY, 
STPI, the gaming industry and the Government of 
Telangana in Jan 2020 to provide resources such as 
mentoring, technology support and funding for gaming, 
animation, VFX, computer vision and AI start- ups. It 
others integrated programs, CVLAB and Game Lab 
for start-ups to scale up through its incubation facility. 
The centre has been branded as IMAGE. The IMAGE 
accelerator program includes premium plug and play 
coworking space for start-ups and others access to the 
ecosystem which comprises IP owners, mentors, seed 
funding, investors and a platform to support Go-To- 
Market strategy. At present 75 start-ups have been on-
boarded and so far,
Centre of Excellence on Blockchain Technology at 
Gurugram
The STPI APIARY, a Centre of Entrepreneurship in 
Blockchain Technology has been setup in collaboration 
with MeitY, STPI, Govt. of Haryana, Padup Venture 
Private Limited, IBM, Intel, GBA and FITT in March 2020. 
This is an initiative to identify and evaluate promising 
start-ups in the eld of Blockchain technology that will 
be hosted in the STPI Gurugram incubation facility. The 
CoE is created to be an Incubation-cum-Accelerator 
Programme through which acute challenges faced by 
start-ups from validation of idea to initial investment will 
be addressed. Total 37 start-ups have been onboarded 
and so far.
Design, Development and Deployment of National AI 
Portal (INDIAai)
INDIAai portal is a venture by MeitY that has been set 
up to prepare the nation for an AI future. This has been 
implemented as a one stop online portal for AI related 
developments in India, sharing of resources, details 
of start-ups, investment funds in AI, companies and 
educational institutions related to AI in India, etc. The 
portal also features the initiatives of the IndiaAI Mission. 
The portal currently has the following major sections - 
news, articles, case studies, research reports, listing of 
startups, listing of investment funds, colleges, companies, 
countries, people, videos, 
datasets, 
courses, 
and 
initiatives of states and central ministries. As of 
date, there are 3,590 articles, 1310 news, 366 videos, 
171 research reports, 511 startups, 151 case studies, 
and 172 government initiatives listed on the National AI 
Portal.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 129
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
127
Electronic Soil Nutrients Analyzer (ESNA)
5.2.3 
Initiatives 
under 
Microelectronics 
and 
Nanotechnology areas
5.2.3.1 Some of the technologies developed/ are being 
developed indigenously under the R&D projects initiated 
in Microelectronics area are:
(i)	
Chips to Start-up (C2S) Programme: has been 
initiated by MeitY as capacity building programme 
at 113 organizations (including 100 academia/ 
R&D originations and 13 Start-ups/ MSMEs) with 
an outlay of Rs. 250 Crore for duration of 5 years in 
the year 2022. C2S Programme aims to generate 
industry-ready 85,000 number of manpower at 
113 organizations (including academic institutions, 
R&D organizations, start-ups, MSMEs) at B.Tech, 
M.Tech and PhD levels specialized in the area of 
VLSI and Embedded System Design and leapfrog 
in ESDM space by way of inculcating the culture of 
Chip/ System-on-Chip (SoC)/ System Level Design 
at Bachelors, Masters and Research level and act 
as a catalyst for growth of Start-ups involved in 
semiconductor design in the country. 
	
The 
Programme 
takes 
a 
comprehensive 
approach by offering students complete hands-on 
experience in chip design, fabrication, and testing. 
This is achieved through regular training sessions, 
conducted in collaboration with industry partners, 
and by providing mentorship and access to chip 
design, fabrication & testing resources to students, 
including state-of-the-art EDA (Electronic Design 
Automation) tools, access to semiconductor 
foundries for fabricating their chips etc. These 
opportunities include implementing the R&D 
(Research & Development) projects under C2S 
Programme for development of working prototypes 
of ASICs (Application-Specific Integrated Circuits), 
Systems/ 
SoCs 
(System-on-Chips), 
and 
IP 
(Intellectual Property) Core designs. Total 25,000+ 
number of engineering students have been trained 
at 113 organizations under C2S Programme till 
date
(ii)	
Design 
Linked 
Incentive 
(DLI) 
Scheme: 
Government of India has approved the ‘Modified 
Programme for Semiconductors and Display Fab 
Ecosystem’ with an outlay of ₹76,000 crore in order 
to catalyse the semiconductor & display ecosystem 
in the country. The Design Linked Incentive (DLI) 
Scheme has been approved as part of it with an 
outlay of Rs. 1000 Crore to offset the disabilities in 
the domestic semiconductor chip design industry 
as well as move up in value-chain and strengthen 
the semiconductor chip design ecosystem in 
the country. The DLI Scheme offers financial 
incentives & design infrastructure support to 
domestic companies, start-ups and MSMEs across 
various stages of development & deployment of 
semiconductor chips.
	
52 
design 
companies 
(including 
start-ups 
and MSMEs) have been approved for design 
infrastructure support under the DLI Scheme. Out 
of these, 15 companies have also been approved 
for financial support for developing semiconductor 
chip/ SoCs for applications in sectors such as 
automotive, mobility, computing, communications 
etc.
(iii)	
Microprocessor 
Development 
Programme: 
Family of 32-bit/ 64-bit Microprocessor has been 
indigenously designed using Open-Source ISA 
(Instruction Set Architecture) along with reusable 
IP Cores by C-DAC, IIT Madras & IIT Bombay. 
	
Following successful tapeouts were earlier carried 
out of – (a) 32-bit/ 64-bit SHAKTI Processors at 
180nm, SCL foundry & 22nm, Intel foundry by IIT 
Madras, (b) 32-bit AJIT Processor at 180nm, SCL 
foundry by IIT Bombay (c) 32-bit VEGA Processor 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 130
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Innovate and Design in India
Annual
2024-2025
128
at 130nm, Silterra foundry by C-DAC and 64-
bit Dual-core VEGA processor at 28nm, TSMC. 
Following ARIES Development baords developed 
and 
commercialized 
using 
130nm 
VEGA 
Processors (details at https://vegaprocessors.in/
devboards/):
(iv)	
Design & development of NavIC Receiver: For 
effective use of Navigational services based on 
Indian Constellation of Satellites, named NavIC 
(Navigation with Indian Constellation), M/s Accord 
Software and Systems developed integrated NavIC 
and GPS Chipsets; which has been qualified by 
ISRO for deployment. About 4.5 Lakh Baseband 
Chipsets and 10 Lakh RF Chipset fabricated for 
deployment in civilian applications. 
5.2.3.2 Some of the technologies developed/ are being 
developed indigenously under the R&D projects initiated 
in Nanotechnology area are:
A.	
Products/prototypes/technologies 
developed 
and MoU signed/collaboration under the 
Nanotechnology Area:
	
1.	
A point of care device namely “Mobilab” has 
been developed by a Start-up incubated un-
der SWASTHA project at IITG for the detec-
tion of amylase, lipase, ALP, ALT, and AST. 
Ethical Clearances, ISO 13485 certification, 
ISO 9001, IEC, EMI, EMC and CDSCO 
Certification has been obtained and a plant 
has also been setup at Geater Noida for 
the product development activities. Around 
1000 patient samples have been tested with 
Mobilab in AIIMS New Delhi, GNRC Guwa-
hati, GMCH Guwahati, IIT Guwahati Hos-
pital, and Government Hospital Kanpur for 
amylase, lipase, ALP, ALT, AST and results 
are found to be more than 90% accurate. 
MOBILAB is already available on the GeM 
portal and many units have been sold so far. 
It has received a funding of Rs. 4.5 Cr from 
Angel investor.
Point of care device namely MOBILAB
	
2.	
A portable SQUID magnetometer has been 
developed with sensitivity of 5x10-10 T. The 
capability of the device for sensing the rock 
samples obtained from the Indian Institute of 
Geomagnetism has been demonstrated.
	
3.	
Prototypes of a large area solid state lighting 
panels have been developed for green light 
source with luminosity 7000 Candela/m2 and 
blue light source with luminosity 3000 Can-
dela/m2.
 
4. 
Microfluidic fuel cell for hydrogen generation 
using H2/O2 from PEC has been developed.
	
5.	
SERS chips for detection of Hemozoin 
(Marker for Malaria) have been developed 
and demonstrated for separation of Hemo-
zoin and Bacteria. 
	
6.	
A prototype device has been made for the 
detection of pseudomonas aeruginosa.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 133
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
131
Classification of publications under MeitY funded projects
5.3	
Centres of Excellence
5.3.1 Nanotechnology Centres
Nanotechnology 
Initiatives 
Division 
at 
MeitY 
has established several Centre of Excellence in 
Nanotechnology to take the basic R&D outcomes to 
the prototype and then to manufacture Nano devices, 
subsystems, systems for the social benefits.
1.	
Nanoscale Research Facility, NRF at IIT Delhi
	
A nanofabrication facility has been set up at IIT 
Delhi for developing nanofabrication processes 
and their use for making non-silicon nanoscale 
devices.
2.	
Inauguration of State-of-the-Art ISO 5 and 
6 Cleanroom Facilities at the Centre for 
Nanotechnology, IIT Guwahati
	
State of the art ISO 5 and 6 cleanroom facilities 
at the Centre for Nanotechnology, IIT Guwahati 
were inaugurated by the Secretary, MeitY under 
the ground breaking project Smart Wearable 
Nano sensing Technologies in healthcare ASICs 
(SWASTHA) in February 2024. 
3.	
Visit of Advisor to the Prime Minister of India 
Shri Tarun Kapoor at CeNSE IISc Bangalore
	
Advisor to the Prime Minister of India, visited the 
Centre for Nano Science and Engineering (CeNSE) 
at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore 
on 11th October, 2024. Shri Kapoor commended 
the efforts in training a skilled workforce for 
the India Semiconductor Mission and showed 
a strong interest in the cutting-edge research 
being conducted at CeNSE. Shri Kapoor’s visit 
underscored the strategic importance of CeNSE’s 
research 
in 
advancing 
India’s 
technological 
capabilities, particularly in the semiconductor and 
nanoscience domains. 
5.3.2 Centre of Excellence on E-waste Management 
 
Centre 
of 
Excellence 
(CoE) 
on 
E-waste 
Management is a unique concept,  first of its kind 
in the country, to create physical infrastructure 
and knowledge hub for the development of cost-
effective technologies for E-waste recycling and 
dissemination of E-waste solutions to interested 
industries. 
 
Currently e-waste is handled either by informal 
sector in a rudimentary manner or exported to foreign 
countries for recycling and recovery of precious 
metals. In order to develop environmentally benign 
and affordable e-waste recycling technologies, 
 
CoE on E-waste management has been created 
at Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology 
(C-MET), Hyderabad on PPP Model with the 
aegis of Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MeitY), Government of Telangana 
and Private industries (40:40:20).  
 
The main objective of CoE is to provide one 
stop solution for all kind of e-waste recycling 
technologies, 
strengthening 
the 
engineering 
ecosystem to improve process efficiency, design 
and development of affordable process equipment 
for e-waste recycling, extending consultancy 
services to interested industries, nurturing start-
ups etc. The CoE is hosting incubation facilities to 
create prototypes for addressing various facets of 
E-waste management. 
 
CoE also promotes start-ups to develop their 
innovative ideas, offer training to MSMEs for 
dismantling practices, attract informal E-waste 
recyclers to practice environmental recycling 
practices, providing training to empower the Indian 
electronics and electrical industries on the E-waste 
Management Rule (2023) through RoHS facility 
available at C-MET etc. An M.Tech programme 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 134
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Innovate and Design in India
Annual
2024-2025
132
on E-waste Resource Engineering & Management 
is also initiated jointly by IIT, Hyderabad and 
C-MET for quality human resource development 
in e-waste space. CoE has already transferred 
e-waste recycling technologies to 22 industries for 
commercial production. 
5.3.3 	CoE on Rechargeable Battery Technology (Pre-
Cell) 
 
Lithium-Ion batteries are ideal power source 
for consumer electronics, e-mobility and power 
sectors. These batteries are also expected to find 
niche applications in e-governance electronics 
such as VVPAT machines. 
 
Current energy storage market in India includes 
applications such as mobile handsets and their 
accessories, solar rooftop, grid solar integration, 
wind integration, electric vehicles, inverter back-
ups, telecom, UPS, rural micro-grid and off-grid 
applications, diesel replacement, railways etc. 
 
India has vibrant Lead Acid battery manufacturing 
industry and needs to augment Li-ion battery cell 
manufacturing to meet current and future demands 
of energy storage. India primarily imports Li-ion 
cells and manufactures battery packs of different 
capacity for various applications. 
 
Government support in form of R&D funding 
for development of cost-effective end-to-end 
indigenous technology for manufacturing of 
rechargeable battery (Li-ion and post lithium) 
suited for Indian environment is vital for meeting 
the future demands. 
 
The support for R&D is expected to lower up-
front investment cost, utilize Indian supply chain, 
improve profit margin and bring SMEs into play 
for manufacturing industrial units of rechargeable 
battery cell manufacturing eco-system. 
 
In this direction, MeitY has initiated a self-
sustainable R&D centre entitled “Centre of 
Excellence 
(CoE) 
on 
Rechargeable 
Battery 
Technology (Pre-cell)” at CMET, Pune for scale up 
and transfer of indigenous technology on Lithium-
ion battery and Sodium ion battery (post lithium) to 
Indian SMEs for manufacturing of battery cells.
Sl. No.
Technology available for ToT
Description
1
Lithium cobalt oxide as cathode 
material for Li-ion batteries.
Cathode material 
for Li-ion Batteries
2
Lithium titanium oxide as anode 
material for Li-ion batteries
Anode material for 
Li-ion Batteries
3
Lithium 
(Nickel 
Manganese 
Cobalt) 
oxide 
as 
cathode 
material for Li-ion batteries.
Cathode material 
for Li-ion Batteries
4
Sodium Vanadium Phosphate 
(NVP) as cathode material for 
Na-ion batteries.
Cathode material 
for 
Na-ion 
Batteries
5.3.4	 CoE on Additive Manufacturing- Optoelectron-
ics Sector 
 
Additive Manufacturing (AM) is disruptive set of 
technologies which are bringing fundamental 
change in how manufacturing is carried out in many 
sectors due to its ability for mass customization. 
AM is enabler for digital manufacturing which 
has capability in producing products directly from 
design data by adding layers of material to obtain 
the final shape with minimal waste, supporting 
Industry 4.0. 
 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology 
(MeitY) has initiated a Centre of Excellence on 
Additive Manufacturing at Centre for Materials 
for Electronics Technology (C-MET), Pune in 
collaboration with Central Institute of Plastics 
Engineering & Technology (CIPET), Bhubaneswar. 
 
The objectives of the centre are to support Indian 
Additive 
Manufacturing 
Eco-system 
through 
focused and coordinated research, design and 
development in collaboration with 3 participating 
industries. The centre is expected to achieve self-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 137
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
135
innovations. 
The 
Prime 
Minister’s 
Science, 
Technology, and Innovation Advisory Council 
(PM-STIAC) have prioritized the Quantum Frontier 
Mission to foster developments in quantum 
computing, communication, and materials.
 
However, 
significant 
challenges 
lie 
ahead. 
Quantum Material Technologies (QMT) demand 
high-quality, reproducible materials conducive to 
high-temperature operations and miniaturization, 
alongside cost-effective manufacturing processes. 
Key to success is the consolidation of intellectual 
property rights and collaborative endeavours 
between industry and academia. 
 
To tackle these hurdles, the establishment 
of the National Centre for Quantum Material 
Technologies (NCQMT) at CMET, Pune, signifies 
a significant step forward. Through collaborative 
ventures with industry partners and the provision of 
indigenous materials, NCQMT aims to accelerate 
the development and deployment of quantum 
materials, driving India’s quantum revolution onto 
the global stage. With a commitment to innovation 
and collaboration, India can position itself as a 
front-runner in the burgeoning field of quantum 
technology.
5.3.9 Centre for Promotion of Additive Manufacturing: 
Optical Computing Chips (OCC)
 
Optical computational chips and photonic devices 
finds application in various fields of technologies 
such as communication, computation, healthcare, 
automation, 
sensor 
and 
defence. 
However, 
although they have shown plethora of applications, 
their industrial viability is mainly limited by their 
fabrication process which involves presence of 
foundries, numerous process- equipments and 
steps. 
 
In recent years, Additive Manufacturing (AM) 
processes are bringing fundamental change in how 
manufacturing is carried out in many sectors due to 
its ability for scalable, cost effective and sustainable 
fabrication process. AM is an enabler for digital 
manufacturing which has capability in producing 
products directly from design data by adding layers 
of material to obtain the final shape with minimal 
wastage. 3D printing in optical computing chip for 
global market
 
The Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MeitY) has initiated a centre on 
Additive 
Manufacturing 
based 
Cost-Effective 
Optical Computing Chips at Indian Institute of 
Science, Bangalore (IISc) in collaboration with 
Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology 
(C-MET), Pune. 
 
The objective of the centre is to design and 
fabricate global state of the art 3D printer to achieve 
sub-micron resolution, indigenous materials for 
printing and to design & fabricate optical devices 
for computation. The centre is expected to 
achieve self-sustenance and focus on developing 
indigenous materials and machine technologies for 
photonics manufacturing sector. 
 
The centre is also bringing opportunities for Indian 
companies to develop their own AM material 
and machine technologies for global market 
at much reduced R&D cost for any sector (not 
limited to photonics) such as aerospace, medical, 
automotive etc. Till date the centre has designed 
and developed state of the art DLP light enginefor 
a full 3D printing machine and formulation of TiO2 
nanocomposites for low resolution printing.
5.3.10 Centre for Promotion of Additive Manufacturing 
- Agri & Food Processing (CPAM – A & FP)
 
The Center for Additive Manufacturing (CPAM), 
established under the Additive Manufacturing (AM) 
initiative of MeitY at the Centre for Development 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 138
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Innovate and Design in India
Annual
2024-2025
136
of Advanced Computing, Kolkata, pioneers a 
groundbreaking concept of Agri-factories. 
 
These facilities integrate agri-produce lines with 
value-added agri-product lines, ensuring control 
over quality, quantity, and costs. Through this 
innovative approach, dependency on open agri-
produce markets diminishes.CPAM’s mission 
encompasses enhancing time-to-market, market 
resilience, and establishing product-independent 
manufacturing lines for value-added agri-products, 
introducing AM to the sector for the first time 
globally. 
 
Additionally, AM will streamline production by 
creating supply chain components such as 
agri-produce line modules and agri-photonics 
components, thereby reducing costs.
 
Collaborating with institutions like CSIR - Central 
Food Technological Research Institute, Mysuru, 
Central 
Manufacturing 
Technology 
Institute, 
Bengaluru, and IIM Calcutta Innovation Park, 
CPAM aims to indigenously develop the Agri-
Factory concept and AM machinery and materials. 
 
This initiative aligns with the government’s vision 
to propel Indian brands in international markets, 
particularly in the food processing sector, as 
evidenced by the significant investment outlined 
in the Ministry of Food Processing Industries’ 
annual report. CPAM’s vision to catalyze product-
oriented research and development in the agri and 
environment sectors is reinforced by its mission 
to enhance productivity, food safety, security, 
and inclusive growth through ICT and electronics-
driven solutions. 
 
The center’s objectives encompass controlling 
the quality and volume of agricultural lines, 
reducing infrastructure and food processing 
costs through 3D printing, fostering industry-
driven economics, and promoting indigenous 
machinery and supply chains. Its scope includes 
designing and establishing Agri-Factory test beds, 
developing Agri-Factory technology, establishing a 
business office for self-sustenance, and preparing 
techno-commercial roadmaps for Agri-Factory 
development.
5.3.11 National Additive Manufacturing Centre West 
(NAMC-W)
 
3D printing or Additive Manufacturing (AM) is driving 
the industry 4.0 revolution, poised as the next-gen 
digital manufacturing technology. Projections from 
M/s HUBS suggest that the AM market will burgeon 
to nearly $50 billion by 2026-27, transitioning from 
rapid prototyping to mass production, thereby 
enhancing 
manufacturing 
sustainability 
and 
supporting broader environmental objectives.
 
The Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MeitY) unveiled the National Strategy 
of Additive Manufacturing (NSAM) in February 
2022, aiming to infuse $1 billion into the Indian 
AM market by 2025. Under this initiative, the 
“Establishment of National Additive Manufacturing 
Centre West (NAMCW) at Ganpat University, 
Gujarat – India” project, in collaboration with 
the State Government of Gujarat and industry 
stakeholders, seeks to augment AM adoption 
across six western states, aligning with NSAM’s 
aspirations.
 
NAMCW endeavours to create a self-sustainable 
facility for product development and training, 
promote the commercialization of AM products, 
foster skilled manpower, and instil future-ready skills 
among students through Science, Technology, 
Environmental, 
Advanced 
Manufacturing, 
or 
STEAM learning. By nurturing the domestic AM 
ecosystem through awareness programs, NAMCW 
aims to bolster inclusive growth and empower 
the AM manufacturing industry, spanning large 
enterprises, MSMEs, and startups, in line with the 
vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.
5.3.12 CoE on products based on Li-ion (Post Cell) 
 
The project “Establishment of Centre of Excellence 
(CoE) for Products Based on Li-ion Cells (Post-
Cell)” is an initiative of Government of India to 
boost the mobile and other electronic industries 
in the country. The project is being implemented 
by CDAC Noida in association with the Industry 
Association – India Cellular and Electronics 
Association (ICEA) & financially sponsored by 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Innovate and Design in India
Annual
2024-2025
138
 
• 
Creation of start-ups/SMEs
 
• 
Services to Industries
 
• 
Testing lab as per International/national 
standards
 
• 
Training and Skill manpower development in 
the relevant areas
 
Under CoE several sensors were developed 
with different communication modules in-built. 15 
startups were incubated with the CoE and several 
skill development programmes were conducted by 
CoE.  We strongly believe that Government should 
make an ecosystem for manufacturing and testing 
of various types of sensors and an electronic 
hub for integration of artificial intelligence and 
communications to sensor-based devices.
5.3.14 India Innovation Centre for Graphene (IICG)
Graphene is a wonder material and possesses 
remarkable properties including high strength, electrical 
conductivity, flexibility, and transparency, which makes 
graphene as desirable material for applications in sectors 
like electronics, energy storage, construction, defence, 
aerospace, automotive, medicine etc. Advancements in 
extraction and production methods can lead to improved 
quality and scalability, enhancing its usability across 
different sectors. Considering the facts, MeitY, has 
been engaged in Research and Development (R&D) in 
Graphene extraction and development processes in order 
to future unlocking economic growth in technological 
advancements and contributing to sustainable solutions 
across various industries. 
India Innovation Centre for Graphene (IICG): The 
objective of this project is to set up the India Innovation 
Centre for Graphene (IICG) to focus on R & D, 
Innovation and Capacity building activities which leads 
to aknowledge centre that caters the following primary 
objectives:
	
Undertake R&D, Product Innovation and Capacity 
building activities in the area ofgraphene, and other 
2D material systems for sensors and actuators, 
energy 
storageand 
harvesting, 
graphene 
– 
CMOS integration, and wearable devices with a 
view todevelop indigenous technology, products, 
intellectual 
property 
rights 
(IPR) 
andtrained 
manpower.
	
The centre is slated to establish a State of the art 
Research and Capability building facility for
 
• 
Microelectronic and semiconductor devices
 
• 
Sensors and thin film devices
 
• 
Nan electrodes for inexpensive organic elec-
tronic devices such as organic
 
• 
photovoltaic (OPVs), liquid-crystal devices 
(LCDs), organic light-emitting
 
• 
diodes (OLEDs), or organic field effect tran-
sistors (OFETs)
 
• 
Energy conversion devices (e.g., Superca-
pacitors, fuel cells and batteries).
	
In addition, the centre aims
 
• 
To provide business and mentorship support 
to Start ups, companies along with the facili-
ties to realize an industry standard product 
solution with graphene and 2D materials
 
• 
To create skilled manpower and jobs in the 
area of emerging technologies in graphene 
and 2D materials development, design and 
fabrication of future electronic components 
and devices.
 
• 
To promote innovation and entrepreneur-
ship through design challenges, outreach 
programs, innovation and incubation grants.
 
Significant progress was made by IICG through 
DUK and CMET in developing  graphene-based 
heaters, energy storage materials, and sensors. 
Notable 
advancements 
include 
self-healing 
anti-corrosive coatings, improved transparent 
piezoelectric 
films, 
and 
polymer/graphene 
actuators for soft gripper applications. 16 patents 
have been filed, showcasing innovation across 
multiple domains.
	
IICG has successfully completed six Innovation 
Grants, 
awarding 
winners 
from 
prestigious 
organizations. Additionally, two Grand Challenges 
were conducted.  R&D training to about 300 
students was carried out through 3 certificate 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 141
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
139
programs at DUK and 2 certificate courses at 
CMET.
Infrastructure for the IICG established at Kochi
The characterization Lab of IICG at C-MET
5.3.15  National Centre for Quantum Accelerator Chip 
using Lithium Niobate (NCQAC)
 
A quantum accelerator chip (QAC) promises 
to solve complex problems much faster than 
the 
best 
possible 
classical 
computers 
by 
exploiting 
fundamental 
quantum 
physical 
laws, e.g., superposition and entanglement. 
Photonic integrated circuits (PICs) with suitable 
programmability 
offer 
a 
promising 
solution 
for developing scalable quantum-accelerated 
processors operating at room temperature which 
have the potential for diverse applications such as 
drug design and development, weather forecasting, 
logistic and scheduling optimization, financial 
modeling, etc. 
 
Lithium niobate has many favorable material 
properties for building scalable, programmable, 
PIC-based QACs including a large transparency 
window covering the entire spectrum of available 
optical sources and devices, stable physical and 
chemical characteristics suitable for reliable 
fabrication 
methods, 
strong 
second-order 
nonlinearity along with the possibility of periodic 
polling that can be harnessed for the efficient 
generation and manipulation of qubits, strong 
electro-optic effect providing access to fast and 
energy-efficient switching.
 
The NCQAC at IIT Kharagpur, in partnership with 
C-MET, Pune, and M/S New Age Instruments and 
Materials, Gurgaon, aims to develop indigenous 
technologies (design, material, machine, process, 
packaging, and applications) for the LNOI PICs, 
validate them through ambient temperature QAC 
solutions, and deploy them for handling simulation 
and optimization problems in education and R&D 
sectors through R&D services and start-ups. 
5.3.16 Graphene Aurora
 
Graphene and related 2D materials have proven 
to show exceptional mechanical and electrical 
properties that make it an attractive alternative to 
build newer and better products. Today, Graphene 
is considered as a family of many 2D materials that 
is one atomic thick (monolayer) or in bulk form that 
can be added to existing products as a thin film or 
as a bulk material for developing several innovative 
solutions in the domains of building materials, 
sensors, 
electronics, 
electrical 
engineering, 
pharmaceuticals, etc.
 
Graphene-Aurora 
aspires 
to 
revolutionize 
Graphene translational research & democratize 
commercialization for overall graphene based 
industrial growth while supporting SMEs deliver 
the Graphene products through the Program.
 
This program compliments state of Kerala’s and 
Govt. of India commitment to translate graphene 
technology to scale deployment and has approved 
setting up of a large-scale Graphene Pilot 
Production facility (GPPF) beyond the proposed 
Graphene Aurora program, supporting ongoing 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 149
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
147
	
The integrated X-ray System testing including 
X-ray 
tubes, 
High 
voltage 
power 
supplies 
and water-cooling system is completed at 
Radiation Shielded facility, SAMEER, Mumbai 
SAMEER, Mumbai have developed a prototype 
‘Xray Blood Irradiation System’ and its dose 
characterization, 
qualifying 
AERB 
QA 
tests 
is completed inside radiation shielded facility. 
(vi)	
Design & Development of EEG Based Real-
Time Depth of Anaesthesia (DoA) Monitoring 
System: 
	
The project aims to develop a machine learning 
model which will be trained using a locally compiled 
clinical database of Electroencephalogram (EEG) 
recordings. Since, the proposed DoA monitor will 
work on a large amount of EEG recordings as 
well as on the patient specific data, it will improve 
the accuracy of the DoA estimation without any 
restrictions on the type of anesthetic drug used 
or the patient’s age. The machine learning model 
will then be realized on Field Programmable Gate 
Array (FPGA) to validate the software simulation 
results on hardware. The proposed DoA system 
will be an indigenous EEG based Real-Time Depth 
of Anesthesia Monitoring System. 
	
Clinical EEG data from 1,333 surgical patients 
have been collected. Twelve key EEG features 
were identified using reverse feature elimination, 
and a Neural Network model was developed, 
achieving 88.21% accuracy with 11 EEG features 
and 4 patient details. Cross-validation methods 
were implemented, and hyperparameter tuning is 
currently underway.
	
The hardware architecture and RTL for the Pre-
Processing Unit (PPU), Feature-Extraction Unit 
(FEU), and Classifier Unit (CLU) have been 
developed. PPU and FEU were integrated and 
evaluated on FPGA, while CLU was tested at 
the unit level. Complete system implementation 
on FPGA is underway, with synthesis and timing 
analysis performed using Synopsys EDA tools. 
Floorplanning, 
clock 
tree 
synthesis 
(CTS), 
placement, and routing are in progress.
(vii)	 Development of focused Compact Microwave 
Hyperthermia Applicator for small cancerous 
tumors: 
	
The project focuses on developing a microwave-
based hyperthermia applicator for therapeutic 
cancer 
treatment. 
Hyperthermia 
technique 
gaining significant attention in recent years, 
involves controlled exposure of tissues or organs 
to temperatures between 41°C and 45°C using 
radio waves and microwaves. This project aims 
to design and develop a noninvasive, focused 
applicator operating within the ISM band (2.45 
GHz) to treat superficial melanoma lesions or small 
tumors on areas such as the face, neck, and nose. 
By introducing focused treatment and monitoring, 
the project presents an innovative approach to 
addressing these medical conditions.
	
A prototype applicator, featuring a double spiral 
antenna and a reflector structure, was developed, 
fabricated and tested. The testing involved two 
distinct measurement setups, incorporating the 
applicator and a simulated high-salinity liquid (HSL) 
within the ISM band at 2.45 GHz. The primary 
goal was to measure the Specific Absorption Rate 
(SAR) at various depths.
(viii)	 Setting up of Medical Electronics Laboratory 
for Calibration and Maintenance of Medical 
Electronics Devices & Equipment: 
	
The aim of the project is to set up a Medical 
Electronics Laboratory at NRTC, Parwanoo to 
facilitate the hospitals, clinical laboratories, medical 
institutes and manufacturers of medical devices 
at Himachal Pradesh and nearby region and to 
generate skilled manpower by providing training 
to youth of the state for maintenance of medical 
electronics equipment. 
	
Medical Electronics laboratory by procuring, 
installation and Commissioning of    equipment 
has been accomplished. NABL Accreditation to the 
Laboratory as per ISO/IEC 17025: 2017 has been 
granted in August 2023 in the Discharge Equipment/ 
Devices, 
Patient 
Conditioning/ 
Maintenance, 
Monitoring Unit, Imaging/ Plotters groups. MoU 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 160
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Internet Governance and Security of Cyber Space
Annual
2024-2025
158
learning, (iv) integrating malware defence by combining 
grey level and feature data, (v) enhancing the prototype 
with early responses for unknown malware on CPU-
GPU platforms, (vi) detecting malware-based attacks on 
critical infrastructure and (vii) supporting the prototype 
with a dynamic signature-based mitigation technique for 
fast and accurate detection of both known and unknown 
malware.
The overall goal is to address the evolving nature of cyber 
threats by developing dynamic defence mechanisms 
through machine learning techniques.
6.4.7	 Centre on Hardware Security: Hardware-
Security Entrepreneurship Research & Development 
(HERD)
The 
project 
aims 
to 
promote 
research 
and 
entrepreneurship in hardware security. The project is 
implemented by a consortia of leading hardware security 
institution IIT Kharagpur, IIT Madras and Data Security 
Council of India, which is creating a national ecosystem 
for cyber security research and entrepreneurship 
through National CoE. The goal is to make India the 
leading nation in hardware security, both in research and 
entrepreneurship. The objectives are:
(i)	
Promotion of Hardware Security Research: Set 
up a well-devised research agenda in hardware 
security focussing on contemporary and emerging 
challenges. Promote hardware security research 
and ensure concerted efforts for measured and 
visible progress in the research work. 
(ii)	
Productization 
and 
Commercialisation 
of 
Research IPs: Create market-ready IPs in 
hardware security, focussing on productization 
and commercialisation. Run a focussed incubation 
and acceleration program for start-up activities in 
hardware security. Develop market and investment 
ecosystem industry adoption and innovation 
growth. 
(iii)	
Pool 
of 
Hardware 
Security 
Researchers: 
Develop a pool of resources for hardware security 
research and product development. Attract minds 
of engineering students challenges of hardware 
security. 
(iv)	
Support to Hardware System Assurance 
Efforts: Develop formal methods, tools, and 
utilities assessing the security and trustworthiness 
of hardware/cyber systems. Support hardware and 
embedded assurance efforts with them. 
(v)	
Methods and utilities for Supply Chain Security: 
Close observations on the hardware components, 
their role in the supply chains, investigate them for 
security threats, devise utilities for helping assess 
their security, and evolve methods for managing 
the risks emanating from them.
(vi)	
Sectoral Hardware Security: Examine hardware 
and embedded systems deployed in the industry 
verticals and undertake experimental evaluation/ 
assessment exercises. Develop test cases for 
testing, carry vulnerability research, and help in 
devising hardening guidelines.
(vii)	 Enterprise Systems for Managing Hardware 
Security Risks: Explore ways, methods, and 
techniques for enterprise systems to manage 
hardware-level threats on a real-time and continual 
basis.
 
6.4.8	 Efforts / activities in North Eastern (NE) States
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology 
(MeitY), Govt. of India has taken initiative as per NE 
Vision 2022, with the broad vision of providing cyber-
crime investigation skills effectively. Major projects in NE 
states include:
1.	
Initiative for Cyber Security Aware Society in 
NE States- Cross Platform Mobile Application 
developed to initiate cyber security aware society.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 275
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Matters
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
273
the National Informatics Centre (NIC), C-DAC, NIELIT, 
SAMEER, C-MET, STQC Directorate, STPI, ERNET 
India, C-DOT. The Ministry provides on-line access to 
various e- resources i.e. IEEE Journals/Transactions/
Proceedings, IEE Journals/Proceedings, ACM Digital 
Library and ISO Standards to its users through MCIT 
Libraiy Consortium.
I&DC provides Gartner Research and Advisory Services 
which is useful e- resource consists of reliable global trends 
& best practices• and latest reports on digital technologies.
I&DC also provides “Bloomberg Terminal Services”. 
The Bloomberg Terminal service is a global, 24-hour 
a day, financial information network providing real-
time and historical pricing, indicative and fundametal 
data, and customized analytics. Other features include 
on-demand print and multimedia news and research, 
extensive electronic-trading capabilities, and a superior 
communications platform.
10.6	 Parliament Section
1. 	
In Calendar Year 2024 the Budget Session, the 
Special Session, Budget cum Monsoon Session 
and Winter session were held. During these 
Sessions 124 number of Parliament Questions in 
Lok Sabha (8 Starred & 116 Unstarred) and 120 
number of Parliament Questions in Rajya Sabha 
(8 Starred & 112 Unstarred) were admitted and 
handled by the Parliament Section. These were 
mainly related to Development of IT Hub, Financial 
Cyber Crime, Control of Cert-In, Development 
of Additive Manufacturing (3D Printing ) in India, 
National 
Knowledge 
Network(NKN), 
Global 
Outage, Incentive for Semiconductor and display 
ecosystem, Digital India Bill, Uniform Fiscal Support, 
Robotic Process Automation Lab, Grievance 
Redressal 
By 
Social 
Media 
Intermediaries, 
Visveswaraya Ph.D. Scheme, Development of 
Metaverse, Big Tech companies, Digital Public 
Infrastructure and AI, Electronic Manufacturing 
Companies, Research and Development, Online 
Gamers, Cyber Security Incidents, Progress of 
Digital India Programme, Future Skills Prime 
Programme, Digital copyright infringement by online 
chatbots, Leakage of personal data on Dark Web, 
Manufacturing of Mobile Phone, Implementation of 
Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, TIDE 
2.0 scheme, Electricity supply to data centres, Tariff 
rationalisation  for  smart  phone  manufacturing, 
Action against Data Breaches, Semiconductor 
Industry, Technological expertise for blockchain 
effectiveness 
for 
MSMEs, 
Digital 
Personal 
Data 
Protection 
Act 
(DPDPA), 
Legislation/
Rules for Online Gaming and Online Gambling, 
Adoption 
and 
Development 
of 
Artificial  
Intelligence  under  PPP  Model, Amendment 
in IT Act to regulate AI, Support to Tech-
Startup, Semiconductor  chip  fabrication, Digital 
Literacy 
and 
Skill 
Development, 
Greenfield 
Semiconductor Fab, Personal Data Mining and 
Phishing, Deepfake, Digital Public Infrastructure, 
Scheme  for  scaling  up  electronics  production, 
Identified digital villages in Andhra Pradesh, Digi 
Locker, National Cyber Security Policy, Software 
Technology Park, Business Process Outsourcing 
Industry, Generative Artificial Intelligence, High 
Purity Silicon.
2.	
Department 
related 
Parliamentary 
Standing 
Committee on Communications and Information 
Technology has discussed on the following 
subjects:- 
	
i.	
Demands for Grants (2024-25);
 
ii. 
Impact of emergence of Artificial Intelligence 
and related issues.
3. 	
The Parliamentary Committee on Information and 
Communication Technology Management (ICTM), 
Rajya Sabha has taken meeting on the subject 
“Exploring the Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
in Parliamentary Processes” in New Parliament 
Building.
4. 	
The 
Parliamentary 
Standing 
Committee 
on 
Communications and Information Technology 
has selected the following subjects for discussion 
during the year 2024-25:
 
i. 
Impact of emergence of Artificial Intelligence 
and related issues
	
ii.	
Social and digital platforms and their regula-
tion


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 281
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annexure
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology
Annual
2024-2025
279
Sl. 
No.
Scheme/Non-Schemes
Budgetary Support 
(Rupees in crore)
5.6
R&D in IT/Electronics/ CCBT
1249.75
5.7
Cyber Security Projects (NCCC & Others)
782.00
5.8
Promotion of Digital Transactions (excluding Digital Payments)
5.00
5.9
IndiaAI Mission
2000.00
6
Other Schemes
16000.00
6.1
Production Linked Incentive Scheme
9000.00
6.1.1
Production Linked Incentive for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing
8885.00
6.1.2
Production Linked Incentive for IT Hardware
115.00
6.2
Modified Programme for Development of Semiconductor and Display Ecosystem in 
India
7000.00
6.2.1
Modified Scheme for setting up of Compound Semiconductors/Silicon Photonics/
Sensors Fab/Discrete Semiconductors Fab and Semiconductor Assembly, Testing, 
Marking and Packaging (ATMP)/Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly and Test 
(OSAT) facilities in India
3900.00
6.2.2
Modified Scheme for Setting up of Semiconductor Fabs in India
2499.96
6.2.3
Modified Scheme for setting up of Display Fabs in India
0.04
6.2.4
Modernisation of Semi-Conductor Laboratory, Mohali
400.00
6.2.5
Design Linked Incentive Scheme
200.00
Sub-Total (Scheme)
22071.00
Total (Scheme & Non-Scheme)
26026.25

====================================================================================================
MeitY_Annual_Report_2025_26.pdf
====================================================================================================


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 49
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Digital India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
47
• 
Create Awareness and wide publicity including event based publicity etc., through various media- social media, 
radio, TV, print, outdoor media & activities around Government of India Schemes and Digital India services.
• 
Inform, Educate, Communicate & Sensitize citizens about usage & benefits of services & schemes.
• 
Expand reach of Digital India programme globally 
 
 
Leave a footprint in the global sphere 
 
 
Recognition of India as a hub for Emerging Technologies (RAISE, Global Conference on Emerging Tech 
etc.)
• 
Establish the brand “Digital India” by way of effective branding exercise across various platforms- Mass Media, 
Social Media, Rural Outreach etc. 
 
 
Facilitate demand creation for various services leading to more adoption of services 
 
 
Increase in downloads of App based services 
 
 
Increase in likes on Social Media platforms
Key Events: 
National Conference on DigiLocker (November 4, 2025) 
The National Conference on “DigiLocker – Enabling Paperless Access for All” was organised at Bharat Mandapam, 
New Delhi. The Conference brought together senior government officials, leaders from the technology and financial 
sectors, educationists, and digital governance experts. The discussions highlighted DigiLocker’s evolving role from a 
secure document storage platform to a cornerstone of trust, convenience, and efficiency across governance, education, 
and industry, reinforcing India’s Digital Trust Revolution
28th National Conference on e-Governance (September 22–23, 2025) 
The 28th National Conference on e-Governance (NCeG) was jointly organised by the Department of Administrative 
Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), MeitY, and the Government of Andhra Pradesh, with Indian Institute of 
Management (IIM) Visakhapatnam as the Knowledge Partner. The Conference theme, “Viksit Bharat: Civil Service 
and Digital Transformation,” featured six plenary and six breakout sessions and brought together senior officials, 
policymakers, academia, industry experts, and awardees to deliberate on innovative practices and emerging trends in 
e-Governance.
IndiaAI Impact Summit 2026 – Pre-Event (September 18, 2025)
A mega pre-summit event at Hotel Ashok, New Delhi was held on September 18, 2025. At the event, Hon’ble HMEIT 
unveiled the logo and flagship initiatives for the IndiaAI Impact Summit 2026 in the presence of senior MeitY officials, 
global AI experts, and distinguished dignitaries. Hosted for the first time by a Global South nation, the IndiaAI Impact 
Summit is guided by the principles of People, Planet, and Progress, and structured around seven thematic pillars: 
Human Capital; Inclusion for Social Empowerment; Safe and Trusted AI; Science, Resilience, Innovation and Efficiency; 
Democratizing AI Resources; and AI for Economic Development and Social Good.
Semicon India 2025 Conference – September 2-4, 2025)
The ‘SEMICON India 2025’ was organised by India Semiconductor Mission in partnership with SEMI and industry 
associations under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi with the aim to position India as 
a trusted partner in the global Semiconductor Supply Chain and drive forward the vision of the India Semiconductor 
Mission. As part of its efforts to position India as a global hub for semiconductor innovation and manufacturing, the fourth 
edition was India’s largest, with over 350 exhibiting companies from 33 countries and regions and a record number of 
global stakeholders. SEMICON India 2025 was jointly organized by the India Semiconductor Mission (ISM) under the 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and SEMI, the global semiconductor industry association.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 50
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Digital India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
48
IT Secretaries Conclave (July 15,2025) 
To accelerate lndia’s digital transformation IT Secretaries’ conclave was organised by MeitY on July 15, 2025 at Bharat 
Mandapam, New Delhi, which brought together senior officers, policy makers, and domain experts to deliberate on the 
latest development, to work on strategies, share best practices, and chart the way forward. Impactful sessions on key 
initiatives such as Aadhaar, India Semiconductor Mission, Cyber Security, indigenous Data Centres as well as some 
key initiatives from States were presented by senior officers. Government of India has been consistently striving to 
bolster the vision of Digital India by fostering collaboration among key stakeholders, promoting emerging technologies, 
and ensuring effective implementation of various digital initiatives across our nation.
Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme, Taj Mansingh (April 26, 2025)
Hon’ble Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology, Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw launched the guidelines and 
portal for the Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS) on April 26, 2025 marking a major step towards 
strengthening India’s electronics manufacturing ecosystem.
Launch of Digital Brand Identity Manual (DBIM) & 1st Chief Information Officer (CIO) Conference, Delhi: (Feb 
18th, 2025)
MeitY organised the launch of DBIM & the first chief information officer (CIO) conference 2025 aiming to achieve 
uniform look & feel in government websites, manual defines citizen-friendly user experience by harmonizing visual & 
voice identities for an enhanced national & global digital footprint of gov.in domain. The event was presided over by Shri 
Jitin Prasada, Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology and Commerce & Industry 
and Shri S. Krishnan Secretary for Minister of Electronics and Information Technology, under the Gov.In: Harmonisation 
of Government of India’s Digital Footprint initiative.
Further, events such as Digital India Talk Shows at Universities and Colleges, Consultation Meeting on Application 
Programming Interface (API) Services onboarding, Bharat Tex 2025, Launch of AI Kosh, Awareness and Sensitization 
Workshop on User Experience and Design System, 32nd Convergence India 2025 Expo, WAVES Summit, India AI 
Event, MeitY Pavilion World Expo 2025, Osaka, Kansai, Japan, Global Fintech Fest etc. were also conducted.
Social Media Coverage: 
• 
Digital India Week 
• 
Ask Our Experts 
• 
National Handloom Day
• 
Har Ghar Tiranga 
• 
Independence Day
• 
National Space Day
• 
India’s First 2D Material Research Fab
• 
Digital India Talkshow 
• 
Semicon
• 
National e-learning day 
• 
CyberJagrit bharat
• 
National Conference e-Governance


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Digital India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
52
As part of the initial rollout, five exemplar Government of India websites were made live at the time of the DBIM launch to 
demonstrate practical implementation of the framework and serve as reference models for Ministries and Departments. 
Subsequently, as of date, six Ministry/Department websites have been successfully migrated and are live.
The harmonisation initiative is presently being accelerated with emphasis on DBIM 3.0 compliance, thereby progressively 
realising the vision of a unified, accessible, citizen-first, and globally recognisable digital footprint for the Government 
of India.
2.4.13	 Digital Economy
2.4.13.1 Background: India’s Digital Economy
India’s digital economy has been expanding at an exceptional pace over the past decade, driven by rapid technological 
adoption, progressive public digital infrastructure, the evolving dynamic innovation ecosystem etc. This transformation 
has positioned India among one of the world’s leading digitalizing economies. 
According to the latest estimates, the digital economy contributed 11.74% of national income in 2022–23, valued at INR 
31.64 lakh crore (~USD 402 billion). Digital-enabling industries—ICT services, telecommunications, and electronics 
manufacturing—form the largest component with 7.83% of GVA, while new digital industries such as platforms and 
digital intermediaries contribute nearly 2%. Traditional sectors including BFSI, trade, and education add an additional 
2% through their growing digital components, underscoring the deepening digitalisation of India’s economic landscape. 
Employment in the digital economy stood at 14.67 million workers (2.55% of the workforce) in 2022–23, with productivity 
nearly five times higher than the rest of the economy. Projections indicate that the digital economy will grow almost 
twice as fast as overall GDP and is expected to reach around 20% of national income by 2030. 
India’s digital transformation is accelerated by strong progress in Artificial Intelligence (AI) ecosystem, with vast 
applications across governance, agriculture, healthcare, mobility, and finance. The semiconductor and electronics 
ecosystem continue to strengthen through new investments in fabrication, assembly and testing, semiconductor design, 
and production-linked incentive schemes. These developments support domestic manufacturing and meet growing 
demand from strategic sectors such as telecom, EVs, cloud, and IoT systems. Global Capability Centres (GCCs) have 
also emerged as a key pillar of India’s digital and innovation landscape, with global enterprises increasingly relying on 
India for high-end engineering, product development, AI/ML research, cybersecurity, semiconductor design, and digital 
operations. 	
Further, India’s globally recognised Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI)—including Aadhaar, UPI, DigiLocker, FASTag, 
Account Aggregator, DIKSHA, and ABDM—remains central to inclusive growth. DPI enables secure identity, seamless 
digital payments, paperless service delivery, and interoperable data exchange, while fostering a strong foundation for 
private-sector innovation, GCC expansion, and digital entrepreneurship. Together, these developments highlight India’s 
evolution into a digitally integrated and innovation-driven economy, where technologies such as AI, semiconductors, 
and DPI—supported by a strong GCC ecosystem—drive productivity, competitiveness, and inclusive growth.
2.4.13.2 Banking and Fintech Ecosystem: An Overview
India’s banking sector stands as a pillar of the nation’s economic progress, playing a vital role in mobilising capital, 
expanding credit access, and driving financial inclusion. While it continues to navigate challenges such as regulatory 
shifts, rising operational costs, and growing competition from fintech players, the sector is simultaneously embracing 
opportunities brought by digital innovation, structural reforms, and evolving customer needs.
India’s fintech sector is rapidly evolving, driven by technological advancements, regulatory support, and a robust digital 
ecosystem. India’s fintech ecosystem encompasses a diverse range of segments that collectively transform the financial 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 55
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Digital India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
53
landscape. The payments sector, driven by digital wallets, UPI, and contactless technologies, enables seamless and 
secure transactions. Regtech supports regulatory compliance with cost-effective solutions, and fintech enablers offer 
the technological backbone that fuels innovation and scalability across the sector.
Digital transformation in India’s financial ecosystem has been significantly driven by Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI), 
with platforms like Aadhaar, UPI, and DigiLocker playing a pivotal role in enhancing financial inclusion and accessibility; 
UMANG is providing various Bharat Bill Payment Services. Further, with the development of Open Credit Enablement 
Network (OCEN) & Account Aggregator (AA) framework, number of Fintechs are going to be increase further to develop 
the citizen centric services in BFSI sector. Complementing this shift, the rise of Banking-as-a-Service (BaaS) has 
enabled banks to offer APIs backed by API Setu, allowing and encouraging fintech companies to innovate and build 
upon existing banking infrastructure, thereby fostering a more collaborative and agile financial landscape.
In order to strengthen and institutionalize mechanisms for ensuring financial stability, driving financial sector development, 
enhancing inter-regulatory coordination, shaping policy, and advancing technology-led innovations, particularly in 
areas such as fintech ecosystem development and payment fraud mitigation, etc, MeitY is actively participating in and 
supporting a wide range of national Banking and Fintech Committees.
These committees engage in critical activities including, Finalization of the Fintech Vision and Strategy report to guide 
India’s fintech roadmap, Establishing the Digital Payments Intelligence Platform as a Section 8 company to leverage 
advanced technologies such as AI/ML, network analytics, and real-time monitoring for preventing and mitigating payment 
fraud, Integrating DigiLocker and Aadhaar more deeply into banking and fintech operations, including strengthening 
frameworks for e-KYC, ULI, and consent-based data sharing, Expanding and enhancing the Aadhaar Bridge Payment 
System, and improving authentication mechanisms for secure, inclusive financial transactions, etc.
Through these engagements, MeitY plays a pivotal role in enhancing the trust, security, innovation, and resilience of 
India’s digital financial ecosystem, while ensuring that technological advancements align with national priorities for 
financial inclusion, consumer protection, and economic growth.
2.4.13.3  Building an Inclusive Digital Economy
An inclusive digital economy ensures that every individual—regardless of geography, gender, income, or ability—can 
participate meaningfully in the digital age. It leverages technology to reduce inequality, empower communities, and 
drive sustainable economic growth.
• 
Digital Access and Infrastructure: In order to bridge the digital divide and foster inclusive growth, it is essential 
to expand universal connectivity by enhancing broadband and mobile networks in underserved rural and urban 
regions. Promoting affordable devices such as low-cost smartphones, tablets, and computers through subsidies 
or public-private partnerships can further empower individuals with access to digital tools. Additionally, ensuring 
that digital platforms are accessible to people with disabilities and available in local languages is crucial for 
creating an inclusive digital ecosystem that serves all segments of society.
• 
Inclusive Financial Services: Advancing financial inclusion in the digital age involves promoting mobile wallets 
and UPI-like systems to facilitate cashless transactions, thereby enhancing convenience and security. Digital 
platforms play a crucial role in expanding microfinance access by delivering microloans and insurance products 
to low-income populations. Additionally, leveraging digital IDs enables the onboarding of unbanked individuals 
into formal financial systems, fostering broader participation in the economy.
• 
Policy and Governance: Building a robust digital economy requires a strong regulatory foundation that prioritizes 
user rights, improving security, securing privacy promoting innovation etc. Promoting open data through accessible 
government datasets can foster transparency and drive technological advancement. Inclusive regulation should 
also be a key focus, with policies designed to support startups, gig workers, and digital cooperatives, ensuring 
that the benefits of digital growth are equitably distributed across all segments of society.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 83
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
81
3.2.1	 Mobile Phones 
India has emerged as the 2nd largest manufacturer of mobile handsets in the world in terms of volume. There are over 
300 units manufacturing cellular mobile phones and parts/ components thereof in the country. The production of mobile 
phones stood at INR 5.45 lakh crore (~USD 64 billion) in FY24-25 as per industry association reports. The export of 
mobile phones stands at approx. INR 2.05 lakh crore (~USD 24.1 Bn) for FY 2024-25.
Phased Manufacturing Programme (PMP) for mobile phones and specified sub-assemblies/parts thereof:
The Phased Manufacturing Programme (PMP) for mobile phones and specified sub-assemblies/parts thereof was notified 
by MeitY on 28.04.2017 to promote domestic value addition in this sector. As a result of the PMP and other initiatives by 
the Government, India has rapidly started attracting investments into this sector and significant manufacturing capacities 
have been set up in the country. The manufacturing of mobile phones has been steadily moving from Semi Knocked 
Down (SKD) to Completely Knocked Down (CKD) level, thereby increasing the domestic value addition. Now, almost 
the entire demand for cellular mobile handsets is being met through domestic manufacturing, reflecting the success of 
these initiatives.
3.2.2	 Information & Communication Technology (ICT) Hardware
The first application of electronics was in the domain of communication and computing. With the emergence of integrated 
circuit, the world saw the advent of the digital computer era, and with the advent of microprocessor in the 1970’s, 
the world saw an exponential growth of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) industry. Its strategic 
importance is such that countries across the world have declared it as an essential commodity. With its pool of technical 
manpower and proven capability as a design center for most of the global hardware companies, the country is ready to 
become an end-to-end player and global leader in the ICT hardware design and manufacturing space. 
India has a huge opportunity arising from both import substitution and export led manufacturing in the space of ICT 
hardware. In addition, ICT hardware holds the promise of high value addition in India, with the manufacturing of the 
Components (i.e., Sub-Assemblies of ICT Products), Product design and Semiconductor Design being done in the 
country.
Emerging domains of AI, ML, IoT are becoming the new driving forces behind the growth of ICT hardware segment. 
These domains require the design of specialized Semiconductors, Sensors and Servers for which India has the 
capability. Another emerging domain in ICT hardware is the Large-Scale Data Centres. India with its technical prowess, 
cheap labour, large pool of manpower, and English as the working language, has the opportunity to lead the world in 
all these domains.
3.2.3	 Consumer Electronics 
Consumer electronics refers to any device containing an electronic circuit board that is intended for everyday use by 
individuals for the purpose of entertainment, recreation or communication. This encompasses a massive category of 
electronic products which includes  televisions, cameras, digital cameras, PDAs,  calculators, VCRs,  DVDs, clocks, 
audio devices, headphones, and various other home products. The key drivers of growth in consumer electronics 
market include increased awareness, easier access, changing lifestyle, higher disposable income and reduction in the 
per unit prices. 
Television is an important device in the home consumer electronics and has been identified as one product for which 
India can become the global hub for manufacturing. As per FICCI, India’s TV production stood at USD 4.24 billion in 
2020-21 and is expected to reach USD 10.22 billion by 2025-26 with a CAGR of 20%. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 85
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
83
Industrial electronics is an empirical barometer of overall growth in the contribution of the manufacturing sector 
in the economy. The spurt in investments due to the “Make in India” programme is bringing significant interest in 
engineering, electrical, automotive and electronics segments which are the driving force behind the growth of industrial 
electronics  sector. In future, M2M (machine-to-machine and machine-to-man) communication modules driven by 
Industry 4.0 activities will determine the growth of the Industrial electronic segment.
3.2.6	 Automotive Electronics 
Automotive electronics are electrically operated systems integrated and mounted in several vehicle applications such 
as body electronics, safety systems, and infotainment. The automotive market demand is experiencing trends related 
to advanced mobility solutions, powertrain & vehicle system electrification, and advanced safety systems. Due to the 
increased implementation of these systems in vehicles, the penetration of automotive electronics has also increased, 
further creating the demand for automotive electronics products across the globe. The digitization of automotive systems 
by including connected technologies, in-vehicle communication, and ADAS & automated systems have created several 
opportunities for market growth. The growing integration & adoption of automotive electronics in modern vehicles to 
deliver enhanced safety & comfort to consumers is one of the major factors driving the automotive electronics industry 
growth. Several features offered by OEMs including Automated Emergency Braking (AEB) system, airbag system, 
and lane departure warning, etc. have significantly decreased road accidents worldwide. Automotive electronics along 
with the presence of broad computing technologies and connected features are enhancing automobile capabilities. 
Alcohol ignition interlock, accident data recorder system, and emergency call system are some of the features gaining 
attraction, which will further propel the growth. According to Allied Market Research, the global Auto electronics market 
is estimated to reach USD 382.16 billion by 2026, growing at a CAGR of 7.3 percent from 2019 to 2026.
Automotive Mission Plan 2016-26 targets India to be among the top three in the world for engineering, manufacturing and 
export of vehicles and auto components. The growing presence of global automobile Original Equipment Manufacturers 
(OEMs) in the Indian manufacturing landscape has significantly increased the localization of their components in the 
country. India has become the preferred designing and manufacturing base for most global auto OEMs for local sourcing 
and exports. 
3.2.7	 Electronic Components 
The global market for electronic components is expected to grow. Following this global trend, the Indian electronic 
components market is also poised to grow significantly. Mobile Phones, Consumer Electronics and Industrial Electronics 
account for the major demand (82%) for electronic components in India. 
GoI launched the Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS) 
(notified vide Gazette Notification No.CG-DL-E-01042020-218992 dated April 01, 2020). This scheme provides financial 
incentive of 25% on capital expenditure for the identified list of electronic goods that comprise downstream value chain 
of electronic products, i.e., electronic components, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies and capital goods for 
manufacture of aforesaid goods, e-waste recycling facility and R&D units for the manufacturing of semiconductors. 
Apart from SPECS, the other initiatives of the Government that boost the production of electronic components include 
rationalization of tariff structure, Phased Manufacturing Programme (PMP), and notification of electronics products 
under the Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017. Under the umbrella of “Make in India” program, 
BCD has been imposed on Printed Circuit Board (PCB) Assembly of Mobile handsets with the intention to strengthen 
the domestic EMS and components segment in India. Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale 
Electronics Manufacturing is also supporting manufacturing of specified electronic components. The Indian government 
has imposed an anti-dumping duty (ADD) on bare printed circuit boards (PCBs) with fewer than six layers.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 86
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
84
Further, the Government has also notified Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme on 08th April 2025 to develop 
a robust electronics component manufacturing ecosystem in India. The scheme offers differentiated incentives viz. 
(a) turnover linked incentive (b) capex incentive (c) hybrid incentive [i.e. combination of both (a) and (b)]. A part of 
turnover linked incentive and capex incentive is also linked with employment. The tenure of the scheme is six (6) 
years with one (1) year of gestation period i.e. from FY2025-26 to FY2031-32. The scheme is designed to broaden 
and deepen the electronics manufacturing ecosystem covering components and sub-assemblies, which have cross-
sectoral applications such as mobile phone, IT hardware, consumer, telecom, auto, medical, industrial, etc.
The Electronics Manufacturing Services (EMS) industry in India is growing rapidly and key global players as well as a 
number of domestic companies are operational in the country. A strong component manufacturing base is essential 
for a sustainable Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) ecosystem in India. This segment needs very 
high efficiency of operations to stay profitable. Availability of components and an effective supply chain is vital for EMS 
companies for their growth.
India’s electronics sector has experienced substantial growth in manufacturing and has achieved considerable scale 
in assembly, largely driven by strategic government initiatives. It is high time to develop an ecosystem focused on 
component manufacturing to further this growth and enhance global competitiveness. In this regard, the Government is 
planning initiatives to develop a component manufacturing ecosystem.
3.2.8	 Medical Electronics 
Indian medical devices market is among the top twenty in the world by market size, and fourth in Asia after Japan, China 
and South Korea. The Government has taken various regulatory steps to promote this sector and has created excellent 
opportunities for the domestic manufacturers, thereby reducing the dependence on imports. Medical devices industry in 
the country is dominated by multinationals that controls about 75-80 per cent of the Indian market. Further, more than 
80 percent of domestic manufacturers are in the small-scale sector and have a turnover of less than ` 10 crore. Also, 
more than 6,000 types of medical devices are in use worldwide, but India manufactures just one-sixth of these medical 
devices.
3.3	
Schemes and programs
3.3.1	 Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS)
Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme was notified on 08th April 2025 to develop a robust electronics component 
manufacturing ecosystem in India. The scheme offers differentiated incentives viz. (a) turnover linked incentive (b) 
capex incentive (c) hybrid incentive [i.e. combination of both (a) and (b)]. A part of turnover linked incentive and capex 
incentive is also linked with employment. The tenure of the scheme is six (6) years with one (1) year of gestation period 
i.e. from FY2025-26 to FY2031-32. The application window for Target Segments A, B, C & E has closed on 30.09.2025. 
For Target Segment D, the window will remain open till 30th April 2027. Till 30.09.2025, the scheme has received total 
249 applications. The target segments covered under ECMS includes display module sub-assemblies, camera module 
sub-assemblies, optical transceivers module- SFP, passive components, electro-mechanicals, PCBs including multi- 
layer, HDI, MSAP, and flexible PCBs, Li-ion cells for digital applications, enclosures for mobile, IT hardware products, 
and related devices, and supply chain components and capital equipment.
Status of ECMS till December 2025 is as follows:
As of 31 December 2025, a total of 24 applications has been approved across 9 states, with a projected investment of 
INR 12,704 crore, production of INR 109,517 crore, and generation of 17,003 direct employment.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 87
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
85
3.3.2	 Modified Special Incentive Package Scheme (M-SIPS)
In order to promote large scale manufacturing in the country, a Modified Special Incentive Package Scheme (M-SIPS) 
was announced by the Government in July 2012. The Scheme has been amended twice – in August 2015 and in 
January 2017. The Scheme has been closed on 31st December 2018 to receive new applications. The salient features 
of the Scheme are: 
• 
Provides Capital Subsidy - 20% for investments in Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and 25% in non-SEZs.
• 
Provides incentives for both new units and expansion units.
• 
Provides incentives for a period of 5 years from the date of approval of application.
• 
Provides incentives for 44 categories/verticals across the value chain (raw materials including assembly, testing, 
packaging and accessories, chips, components).
• 
Minimum investment threshold for each product category/vertical Unit to be in Industrial Area notified by Central/
State Govt.
Status of M-SIPS till December, 2025 is as follows:
As on 31 December 2025, 304 applications with proposed investment of Rs 64,872 Crore are approved. 
The incentives to the tune of Rs 2817.20 Crore have been disbursed to the 153 applicants.
Out of 304 approved applicants, 288 applicants have started incurring investment on their projects and have made 
investment of Rs 54,117 Crore. Out of 304 approved applicants, 272 applicants have commenced commercial production 
with reported turnover of Rs 16,98,109 Crore, which includes exports to the tune of Rs 4,41,784 Crore. These units 
have given employment opportunities (Direct & Indirect) to over 4,79,548 persons and given revenue of approximately 
Rs 2,19,654 Crore to the Government.
3.3.3	 Electronic Cluster Manufacturing (EMC) Schemes
To create conducive and sustainable ecosystem for electronics manufacturing in the country, Government notified 
the Electronics Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) Scheme in October, 2012 for providing support to create world-class 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 88
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
86
infrastructure along with common facilities and amenities for attracting investments in the ESDM sector. The scheme 
was open to receive applications for a period of five years from the date of its notification i.e., upto October, 2017. 
Further period upto March 2026 is available for disbursement of funds to the approved projects. The salient features of 
the scheme are as follows:
i. 
To create robust infrastructure base for electronics manufacturing in the country through development of Greenfield 
EMCs and Common Facility Centres (CFCs).
ii.	
Financial assistance upto 50% of the project cost subject to a ceiling of ` 50 crore for every 100 acres of land 
for Greenfield EMC and 75% of the cost of infrastructure, subject to a ceiling of ` 50 crore for Common Facility 
Centre.
iii. 
State Government incentives are over and above the Central financial assistance. 
iv.	
Development of EMCs to provide ready infrastructure for industry engaged in electronics verticals and its entire 
value chain to set up their manufacturing facilities in EMC.
Status of EMC till December, 2025 is as follows:
Under the scheme, MeitY received 50 applications out of which 46 applications were for setting up of Greenfield EMCs 
and 4 applications for setting up of Common Facility Centers (CFC) in Brownfield Clusters from 19 states across the 
country. Of these, nineteen (19) Greenfield EMCs and Three (3) CFCs were accorded approval admeasuring an area 
of 3,464 acres with project cost of ` 3,499 crore including Grant-in-aid of ` 1,470 crore from Government of India. These 
EMCs were poised to attract an investment of ` 46,619 crore and are expected to generate 6.30 lakh employment 
opportunities once operational. 
As on December, 2025, a Grant-in-aid amounting to ` 858.68crore has been released for implementation of these 
projects. These EMCs/CFCs are providing developed infrastructure with plug & play facility along with requisite testing/
validation services to electronics industry to start their production activity in the country. About 432 companies with 
projected investment of ` 55,347 crore have committed for setting up of their manufacturing facilities within these 
EMCs with estimated employment generation of about 2.78 Lakh. Of these, 161 companies started their commercial 
production with an investment of ` 19,973 crores and provided employment opportunities to over 77,179 persons. More 
than 1.5 crore man-days has been generated through these EMCs. In addition, 116 electronics manufacturing units are 
at various stages of construction and implementation.
3.3.4	 Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) Scheme
To provide avenues for expanding and strengthening of electronics manufacturing ecosystem in the country; Ministry 
of Electronics and IT notified the Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) Scheme on April 01, 2020. 
By providing support for creation of world class infrastructure along with common facilities and amenities for attracting 
major global electronics manufacturers along with their supply chains, the scheme aims to make India an Electronics 
Manufacturing Hub. The scheme also provides requisite financial assistance for creation of industry specific facilities 
like Common Facility Centers, Ready Built Factory Sheds / Plug and Play facilities etc. This will attract large scale 
electronics manufacturers to commence their production in the country and act as Anchor units to bring their suppliers 
in such clusters. It will also ensure greater integration with the global supply chains in the electronics manufacturing 
sector. The salient features of EMC 2.0 Scheme are as follows:
i)	
Financial assistance upto 50% of the project cost subject to ceiling of ` 70 crore per 100 acres of land for setting 
up of Electronics Manufacturing Cluster projects and 75% of the project cost subject to a ceiling of ` 75 crore for 
Common Facility Centres (CFCs). 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 89
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
87
ii)	
Minimum land area requirement is 200 acres (100 acres in case of North-Eastern States, Hill States and UTs)
iii)	
Commitment from Anchor Units for having min. 20% of saleable/ leasable area with investment Commitment of ` 
300 crore (10% and ` 150 crore in case of North-Eastern States, Hill States and UTs)
iv)	
Development of Ready Built Factory (RBF) Sheds and Plug & Play facilities in at least 10% of the saleable / 
leasable land area.
v)	
Open for new as well as expansion of existing EMCs/CFCs. 
vi)	
Implementation and execution of scheme through Project Management Agency i.e., STPI. 
vii)	
State Government/its agencies, Central PSUs/State PSUs, Industrial Corridor Development Corporations 
(ICDCs) or joint venture of such agencies with Anchor units or industrial park developers (existing SPVs in case 
of expansion of projects) all eligible to apply
viii)	
Scheme is open for receipt of application for a period upto March, 2024 and period upto March, 2028 is available 
for release of financial assistance to approved projects.
Status of EMC 2.0 till December, 2025, is as follows:
Under the Scheme, 11 applications for setting up of EMC and 2 applications for setting up of CFC admeasuring an area 
of 4,399 acres with a project cost of ` 5,226.49 crore including Central financial assistance of ` 2,492.75 crore have been 
approved. These EMCs are poised to attract an investment of ` 1,46,846 crore and have potential to generate about 
1.80 lakh employment opportunities once fully operational. Financial assistance of ` 450.77crore has been released for 
implementation of these projects so far. An investment commitment of ` 1,24,124 crore has already been received from 
123 companies with employment potential of 77,385 persons in these EMCs. 9 units have already started production 
and other 9 units are in construction. An investment of ` 10,908 crores has been mobilized with employment generation 
of 13,680 persons.
3.3.5	 Electronics Development Fund (EDF)
Electronics System Design & Manufacturing is a sector which is characterized by high velocity of technological change. 
Intellectual Property is possibly the most critical determinant of success, not only for the companies of this sector but 
also to the countries and economies as a whole. Setting up of EDF was one of the important strategies to enable 
creation of an electronics industry ecosystem in the country. Encouraging a vibrant ecosystem of innovation, R&D 
with active industry involvement is essential for a thriving electronics industry. It is with this objective that an EDF has 
been set up as a “Fund of Funds” to participate in professionally managed “Daughter Funds” which in turn provides risk 
capital to companies developing new technologies in the area of Electronics and Information Technology (IT). This fund 
is expected to foster R&D and innovation in these technology sectors through creation of an ecosystem for providing 
risk capital to industry to undertake market driven R&D. It will, in the process, enrich the intellectual property in the 
country and encourage more entrepreneurs towards product and technology development. 
Canbank Venture Capital Funds Ltd. (CVCFL), a 100% subsidiary of Canara Bank, is the Investment Manager and 
MeitY is the anchor investor of EDF. EDF has drawn ` 216.33 crore from its contributors, which includes ` 210.33 crore 
from MeitY. As on 30.11.2025; EDF has invested ` 257.77 crore in eight Daughter Funds, which in turn have made total 
investments of ` 1,335.77 crore in 128 Ventures/Startups. Total Funds raised by the supported startups of the Daughter 
Funds of EDF are approx. ` 21,913 crore (other than Daughter fund). Total employment in supported Startups was more 
than 22800 Number of IPs created/ acquired by the supported start-ups is 368. The supported start-ups and companies 
are majorly working in IOT, Robotics, Drones, Autonomous Cars, Health-tech, Cyber security, Artificial Intelligence / 
Machine Learning etc.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 90
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
88
S. 
No.
Name of Daughter Fund
Amount invested 
by EDF (` crore)
Total No. of 
Investee entities 
of the DF
Amount of investments of 
the DF in these investee 
entities in (` crore)
1
Unicorn India Ventures Trust
15.82
17
63.64
2
Aaruha Technology Fund - 1
6.75
13
26.22
3
Endiya Seed Co-creation Fund
30.00
12
137.03
4
Karsemven_Fund
24.00
17
83
5
pi Ventures Fund 1
15.00
15
186.53
6
YourNest India VC Fund II
43.15
19
185.54
7
Ventureast Proactive Fund - II
97.75
18
425.70
8
Exfinity Technology Fund Series II
25.30
17
227.68
Total
257.77
128
1335.77
3.3.6	 Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing 
Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing  was notified vide Gazette 
Notification No.CG-DL-E-01042020-218990 dated April 01, 2020, to provide financial incentive to boost domestic 
electronics manufacturing and attract large investments. The Scheme extends an incentive of 4% to 6% to eligible 
companies on incremental sales (over base year i.e., 2019-20) of manufactured goods including mobile phones and 
specified electronic components for a period of five years subsequent to the base year. 
Over the scheme tenure, the Scheme is expected to lead to total production of about ` 8.12 lakh crore. Out of the total 
production, about 60% is expected to be contributed by exports of the order of ` 4.87 lakh crore. The Scheme targets 
to bring additional investment in electronics manufacturing to the tune of ` 7,000 crore. PLI Scheme will also help in 
promotion of domestic champion companies by reviving Indian Brands and strengthening Indian EMS companies.
After the success of the First Round of Production Linked Incentive Scheme in attracting investments in mobile phone 
and electronic component manufacturing, Second Round of the PLI Scheme for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing 
was launched on 11.03.2021 for incentivizing Electronic Components. Under the Second Round, incentives of 5% 
to 3% have been extended on incremental sales (over base year i.e., 2019-20) of goods manufactured in India and 
covered under the target segment, to eligible companies, for a period of four years.
In accordance with the announcement made by Hon’ble Union Finance & Corporate Affairs Minister on 28.06.2021 to 
provide relief to companies approved under the PLI Scheme affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, the tenure of the PLI 
Scheme has been extended by one year i.e., from 2024-25 to 2025-26. The notification in this regard was issued on 
23.09.2021.
The status of PLI Scheme for LSEM till December 2025 is as follows:
As of December 2025, the companies approved under the PLI Scheme for LSEM have generated cumulative investment 
of INR 15,172 Cr, cumulative production of INR 10,22,687 Cr, cumulative exports of INR 5,67,442 Cr and cumulative 
employment of 1,47,572 (Direct jobs).


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 91
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
89
3.3.7	 PLI Scheme 2.0 for IT Hardware
PLI Scheme 2.0 for IT Hardware was notified on 29.05.2023 with an approved outlay of Rs.17,000 crore to boost domestic 
manufacturing and attract large investments in the value chain. The Scheme extends an incentive of around 5% (based 
on localization of components/sub-assemblies) on net incremental sales (over base year) of goods manufactured in 
India and covered under the target segment, to eligible companies, for a period of six (6) years. The Target Segment 
includes (i) Laptops (ii) Tablets (iii) All-in-One PCs and (iv) Servers (v) USFF (Ultra Small Form Factor). A total of 27 
companies have been approved under the Scheme.
The Scheme is expected to generate following outcomes during its tenure:
i)	
Expected incremental production is Rs. 3.35 Lakh crore
ii)	
Expected incremental investment is Rs. 2,430 crores
iii)	
Expected incremental direct employment is 75,000
The status of PLI Scheme 2.0 for IT Hardware till December, 2025 is as follows:
As on 31.12.2025, PLI Schemes for IT Hardware have led to a total cumulative production of Rs. 16,531.64 crore, total 
cumulative investment of Rs. 856.64 crore and total cumulative employment of 4,776 (direct jobs).
3.3.8	 Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS) 
Notified vide Gazette Notification dated April 01, 2020, the Scheme provides financial incentive of 25% on capital 
expenditure for the identified list of electronic goods that comprise downstream value chain of electronic products, 
i.e., electronic components, semiconductor/ display fabrication units, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies and 
capital goods for manufacture of aforesaid goods, e-waste recycling facility and R&D units for the manufacturing of 
semiconductors The scheme promotes development of electronic components manufacturing ecosystem in the country 
and deepening of electronics value chain and is expected to bring new investments to the tune of ` 20,000 crore 
with total employment generation potential of 6,00,000 (Direct and Indirect). The scheme is closed to receive new 
applications on 31.03.2024.
Progress under the scheme till December, 2025 as per latest Quarterly Progress Report
58 applications have been approved with total proposed investment of Rs. 22,081 crore. As per the Quarterly Progress 
report submitted by the applicant total investment done by the approved applications is Rs. 20,488 crore. Total production 
done by the approved applications is Rs. 49,352 crore. Total employment generated by the approved applications is 
56,314 persons.
3.3.9	 Programme for Development of Semiconductors and Display Manufacturing Ecosystem in India
Government of India approved the comprehensive program for the development of a sustainable semiconductor and 
display ecosystem in the country with an outlay of ` 76,000 crore (>10 billion USD) in order to foster the objective of the 
development of a diversified, resilient, and sustainable semiconductor and display manufacturing ecosystem in India, 
which provides
i.	
Fiscal support of 50% of the project cost on pari-passu basis for setting up of Silicon Complementary Metal-Oxide-
Semiconductor (CMOS) based Semiconductor Fabs in India.
ii.	
Fiscal support of 50% of Project Cost on pari-passu basis for setting up of Display Fabs in India.
iii.	
Fiscal support of 50% of the Capital Expenditure on pari-passu basis for setting up of Compound Semiconductors 
/ Silicon Photonics (SiPh) / Sensors (including Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems) Fab/ Discrete Semiconductor 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 92
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
90
Fab and Semiconductor Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging (ATMP) / Outsourced Semiconductor 
Assembly and Test (OSAT) facilities in India. 
iv.	
Product Design Linked Incentive (DLI) of up to 50% of the eligible expenditure subject to a ceiling of `15 Crore 
per application and also “Deployment Linked Incentive” of 6% to 4% of net sales turnover over 5 years subject to 
a ceiling of `30 Crore per application for incentivizing chip design
Government has also approved the modernization of Semi-Conductor Laboratory, Mohali under the Programme.
3.3.9.1	 India Semiconductor Mission (ISM):
India Semiconductor Mission (ISM) as an Independent Business Division under the Digital India Corporation, has been 
nurturing India’s strategies for developing Semiconductors and display ecosystem focussed on the objectives namely-
• 
Promoting development of indigenous products/ technologies via suitable mechanisms/ infrastructure facilities  
• 
Enabling cutting-edge research and development and curating pool of skilled manpower.
• 
Encouraging technology transfer by networking/ partnerships with national and international entities.
• 
Assisting in obtaining monetary support through requisite fund mechanisms/ grants schemes, etc. 
• 
Facilitating adoption of secure microelectronics and developing a trusted semiconductor supply chain.
3.3.9.2 Modernization of Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL), Mohali
The Union Cabinet has also approved that Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology will take requisite steps 
for modernization and commercialization of Semi-conductor Laboratory (SCL), Mohali. Semi-conductor Laboratory 
(SCL), Mohali has been brought under the administrative control of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology 
from Department of Space 
SCL is an Integrated Device Manufacturer which undertakes activities pertaining to design, development, fabrication, 
assembly & packaging, testing and quality assurance of Silicon CMOS and MEMS Devices for various applications. 
Presently, SCL has two wafer fabrication lines, i.e., 200 mm wafer line operating in 180nm CMOS technology and 150 
mm wafer line for MEMS technology. SCL predominantly caters to low volume requirements for various applications.
Boston Consulting Group (BCG) has been engaged to provide consultancy services for the Modernization of Semi-
Conductor Laboratory, Mohali. 
The primary focus of the modernization of SCL is the 8-inch 180nm CMOS fab-line with the following outlined objectives:
(i)	
Augment the capacity of the line to at least 1500 WSPM, build redundancy and improve operational performance
(ii)	
Enhance technological capability to support broader needs of government, academia and industry
(iii)	 Ensure operational continuity and improved customer commitment.
As part of its modernization, SCL published RFP and invited proposals to upgrade its chip manufacturing facilities. 
Through this RFP, SCL intends to engage experienced Contractor(s) for augmentation and enhancement of the existing 
8-inch fab-line. The technical evaluation and financial evaluations of the bids received have been completed, and the 
results have been published on the SCL website.
3.3.9.3 Approvals issued under the programme:
• 
Micron Technology Inc.’s proposal for setting up an ATMP facility in Gujarat with an investment of ` 22,516 crore 
was approved in June 2023. Micron’s facility in India will enable assembly and test manufacturing for both DRAM 
and NAND products and address demand from domestic and international markets. The production capacity is 
around 14 million units per week. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 93
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
91
• 
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s proposal for setting up a Semiconductor Fab facility in Gujarat with an 
investment of ` 91,526 crore was approved in February 2024. The fab facility will be set up in technology partner­
ship with PSMC, Taiwan. PSMC is an established semiconductor company having 6 semiconductor foundries in 
Taiwan. The production capacity of the project would be around 50,000 wafer starts per month (WSPM). 
• 
Tata Electronics Private Limited (TEPL)’s proposal for setting up of OSAT facility in Assam with an investment 
of ` 27,120 crores was approved in February 2024. The facility will use indigenous semiconductor packaging 
technologies with a production capacity of 48 million per day. 
• 
CG Power and Industrial Solutions Limited’s proposal for setting up OSAT facility in Gujarat with an investment 
of ` 7,584 crore was also approved in February 2024. The facility will be set up as joint venture partnership 
with Renesas Electronics America Inc., USA, and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. The Technology would be 
provided for this facility by Renesas Electronics Corporation, Japan and STARS Microelectronic, Thailand. The 
production capacity would be around 15.07Million Units per day. 
• 
Kaynes Technology India Limited (KTIL) proposal for setting up of Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly 
and Test (OSAT) facility in Gujarat for Wire bond Interconnect, Substrate Based Packages was approved in 
September,2024. The Technology would be provided by ISO Technology Sdn. Bhd. and AOI Electronics Co. Ltd. 
(AOI). This facility will be setup with an investment of ` 3,307 crore. The facility will have the capacity to produce 
more than 6.33 million chips per day.
• 
Vama Sundari Investments (Delhi) Private Limited (VSIPL) proposal for setting up of Outsourced Semiconductor 
Assembly and Test (OSAT) facility in Uttar Pradesh for display driver ICs (DDIC) using Gold (Au) Bump technology 
along with chip probing facilities and die processing services was approved in May,2025. The Technology would 
be provided by Hon Hai, Taiwan. The facility will be set up as joint venture partnership between VSIPL and 
Foxconn, India with an investment of Rs 3,706 crore. The production capacity would be around 20K wafers per 
month/36 Mn chips per month.
• 
3D Glass Solutions Inc. (3DGS) proposal for setting up of a vertically integrated advanced packaging and 
embedded glass substrate manufacturing on the glass panels in Odisha with an investment of ` 1,943 crores has 
been approved in August,2025. The plant will handle the assembly of packaged products such as Flip Chip Ball 
Grid Array (FCBGA) assembly, Radio Frequency System in Package (RF SiP), Antenna in Package System in 
Package (AiP SiP), glass interposers with passives and silicon bridges and 3D Heterogenous Integration (3DHI) 
modules. Proposed Installed capacity for glass panel substrate production, assembly and 3DHI is around 5800 
panels per month, 4.20 million units per month, and 1100 units per months respectively.
• 
SiCSem Private Limited’s proposal for setting up an integrated facility for Silicon Carbide (SiC) based Compound 
Semiconductors fab and ATMP in Odisha with an investment of ` 2,066 crore has been approved in August 2025. 
The facility will be set up in technology partnership with Clas-SiC Wafer Fab Ltd. for SiC fab and Continental 
Device India Pvt. Ltd. for packaging. The production capacity is 5,000 wafers/month and packaging capacity of 8 
million units/month.
• 
Continental Device India Private Limited (CDIL) proposal for Brownfield expansion of its semiconductor 
manufacturing facility at Punjab, with an investment of ` 117 crores has been approved in August 2025. The 
proposed facility will manufacture high-power discrete semiconductor devices such as MOSFETs, IGBTs, 
Schottky Bypass Diodes, and transistors, both in Silicon and Silicon Carbide. The production capacity of the will 
be around 158.38 million units/annum. 
• 
Advanced System in Package Technologies Private Limited (ASIP) proposal for setting up an OSAT facility in 
Andhra Pradesh, with an investment of ` 480 crores in August 2025. The facility will be set up in technology 
partnership with APACT Co. Ltd, South Korea. The production capacity of the facility would be around 96 million 
units/annum. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 94
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
92
• 
100 start-ups and MSMEs companies have been approved for design infrastructure support under the DLI Scheme 
made available by ChipIN Centre at C-DAC Bengaluru. Out of these, 24 applications have also been approved 
for financial support for developing semiconductor chip/ SoCs for applications in sectors such as automotive, 
mobility, computing, communications etc namely - DV2JS Innovation LLP, Vervesemi Microelectronics, Fermionic 
Design, Morphing Machines, Calligo Technologies, Sensesemi Technologies, Saankhya Labs, Aryabhata Circuits 
and Research Labs, BigEndian Semiconductors, C2i Semiconductors, Aheesa Digital Innovations, Mindgrove 
Technologies, InCore Semiconductors, Netrasemi, Green PMU Semi, WiSig Networks, MosChip Technologies, 
MbIt Wireless, Multi Nano Sense Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Sophrosyne Technologies Pvt. Ltd. MMRFIC Technology 
Pvt. Ltd. and Incise Infotech Limited.
3.3.9.4 International Collaborations in the field of Semiconductors:
Becoming a self-sufficient chip manufacturing nation is a complex and multifaceted endeavour that depends on 
various factors, including technological advancements, research and development (R&D), skilled labour, investment, 
infrastructure development, policy support, and global market dynamics. Recognising the internationally integrated 
nature of Semiconductor Industry, Government of India started engaging with other countries to establish a resilient 
Semiconductor Supply Chain and Innovation Partnership.
• 
MoU with USA: Government of India had signed MoU with USA for establishing semiconductor supply chain 
and innovation partnership under the framework of India-Unites States Commercial Dialogue to enhance bilateral 
collaboration on opportunities to advance resilient semiconductor supply chains and leverage complementary 
strengths.
• 
MoC with Japan: Government of India has also signed a Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) with Government 
of Japan for “Semiconductor Supply Chain Partnership” to strengthen cooperation between Japan and India 
towards the enhancement of semiconductor supply chain. 
• 
MoU with European Union: Government of India has signed an MoU with EU, to deepen cooperation on 
semiconductor ecosystem, its supply chains and innovation and leverage complementary strengths by exchanging 
best practices w.th regard to their respective semiconductor strategies and programs.
• 
MoU with Singapore: Government of India has signed an MoU with Singapore to establish the “India-Singapore 
Semiconductor Ecosystem Policy Dialogue,” aimed at enhancing cooperation in semiconductor supply chains, 
R&D, business partnerships, and workforce development, while promoting joint initiatives to boost resilience and 
growth in the semiconductor industry.
• 
MoU with Netherlands: A Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Electronics & Information 
Technology, Government of the Republic of India and Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Netherlands and 
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the India-Netherlands Partnership on 
Semiconductors and Related Emerging Technologies was signed in May 2025.
3.3.9.5 Capacity building and talent development for semiconductors:
• 
Recognizing the importance of Talent development in Semiconductor domain, Government of India has been 
making significant efforts to develop talent in the semiconductor domain. AICTE launched following model 
curriculum for UG, Diploma, Minor Degree in Semiconductor domain as a step towards creation of Talent pool in 
Semiconductor domain:
	
o	
B. Tech in Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and Technology) 
	
o	
Diploma in IC manufacturing 
	
o	
Minor Degree in Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and Technology)


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 95
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
93
	
These courses will help in creating Semicon industry ready talent pipeline and will reduce the time gap to make 
students industry ready. 
• 
India is also collaborating with countries overseas for capacity building and Talent development in Semiconductor 
domain. ISM has signed an MoU with Purdue University, to enable collaboration for development of skilled 
workforce (through curation of specific courses/ academic programs), specialized R&D programs. 
• 
Lam Research, USA, Semiconductor Equipment Manufacture announced to train 60,000 workforce in the next 10 
years through its Semiverse Solutions virtual nano-fabrication platform and course customization in collaboration 
with IISc and Indian academic institutions, aiming to expedite India’s semiconductor education and workforce 
development goals. After a successful completion of pilot programme, an MoU has been signed between ISM, 
IISc Bangalore and LAM Research in April 2024, to scale up the training. Under the MoU, a project is being 
implemented to train up to 4800 students in two years.
• 
NIELIT has jointly finalized the course curriculum with Tata Electronics Pvt. Ltd. for skilling manpower in various 
verticals of Semiconductor Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging. NIELIT is planning to roll out these skilling 
programs in its following Centers: Tezpur / Guwahati, Imphal, Agartala, Aurangabad, and Calicut.
• 
The First India-Dutch Semicon School has been conducted over five days, from 9-13th December, 2024 in online 
mode. The program featured 2 or 3 lectures each day, along with a group assignment at the end of the program. 
170 students participated in the program from the following institutions: IIT Delhi, IIT Madras, IIT Guwahati, IIT 
Gandhinagar, Technical University Eindhoven, University of Twente, Technical University Delft.
• 
Proposal on “Upskilling program for Master Trainers in Japan” for training of 50 Indian master trainers in Japan 
was approved at the 158th meeting of the Screening Committee held on 29.08.2025. Under this program, 50 
master trainers will be upskilled in Japan through hands-on training (Technician and Engineer level) at shop 
loor in areas such as Facility management, Fab Operations, Maintenance Engineer, Semiconductor Packaging 
and Testing, Reliability and Failure Analysis. The implementation schedule for the training program of 50 master 
trainers is tentatively planned from May 2026 to March 2028.
3.3.9.6	 Outreach Activities: 
Semicon India Conference 2025:
‘SEMICON India 2025’ Conference has been organized from 2nd –4th September, 2025 with the Theme ‘Building the 
Next Semiconductor Powerhouse’. The event witnessed the super success with over 30,000 attendees, participation 
from 48 countries, and more than 350 companies showcasing innovations. Unique features included country pavilions, 
workforce development sessions, and student mentoring programs. 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 96
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
94
 
The key announcements that were made during the event are:
•	
Reopening of the EDA tool access window under the Design Linked Incentive (DLI) scheme. 
• 
Selection of 30 semi-finalists under the Digital India RISC-V Grand Challenge. 
•	
GlobalFoundries’ support for DLI-approved companies through the India Foundry Connect program. 
•	
Collaboration between ChipIN Center and Odisha’s O-Chip program to boost fabless design in the state. 
•	
Moschip Technologies unveiled the roadmap for the indigenous VIDYUT chip for smart energy meters. 
•	
NetraSemi and PRAMA India announced a partnership to integrate indigenous chips into CCTV surveillance 
devices.
•	
C-DAC signed MOUs with international partners to advance cryogenic chip design and hybrid quantum computing 
capabilities.
3.3.9.7 	Employment
The semiconductor manufacturing facilities will generate direct employment of more than 25 thousand advanced 
technology jobs and about 60 thousand indirect jobs.
3.3.9.8 	R&D Road map
• 
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) has announced a planned investment of $400 Mn to establish Collaborative 
Engineering Centre in Bangalore. During the initial 5 years. the center would support $2Bn+ of spending and 
create ~500 advanced engineering jobs. This initiative will facilitate R&D collaboration amongst R&D team of 
Applied Materials, Indian academic institutions and R&D team of vendors of Applied Materials. This will also help 
in development and sourcing of components/sub-assemblies required for the AMAT’s semiconductor equipment.
• 
Advanced Micro Devices: Advanced Micro Device (AMD) announced plan to invest approximately $400 Million 
over the next five years to expand Research, Development and Engineering Operations in India. The planned 
investment includes a new AMD campus in Bangalore, Karnataka that will serve as the company’s largest design 
center, as well as the addition of approximately 3,000 new engineering roles by the end of 2028. AMD committed 
to an investment of $73Mn for Year 2024 and $32Mn for Year 2025 as a part of $400Mn investment. It has hired 
980 Engineers, including 22% women. 
• 
Microchip: Microchip Technology announced a $300 million investment plan to expand its operations in India. To 
strengthen its presence in India, the company has inaugurated a new research and development (R&D) facility 
at One Golden Mile Office Tower in Hyderabad. This 168,000-square-foot center, which has a capacity for 1,000 
employees, joins Microchip’s existing developments in Bengaluru and Chennai. Microchip has added more than 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 97
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
95
200 engineers to the workforce. The Phase II office of Microchip is underway to add more than 1200 engineers in 
Chennai.
MoU with Singapore: Government of India has recently signed an MoU with Singapore to establish an “India-Singapore 
Semiconductor Ecosystem Policy Dialogue”. The Policy Dialogue will be used as a platform to:
• 
Discuss semiconductor supply chain related issues;
• 
Exchange best practices to leverage opportunities for growth in the global semiconductor industry;
• 
Explore areas for mutually beneficial semiconductor R&D collaboration; 
• 
Encourage collaboration between Singapore-based and India-based companies towards mutually beneficial 
semiconductor related business opportunities and partnerships;
• 
Consider initiatives to enhance semiconductor supply chain resilience, based on areas of mutual strength such as 
fabs, packaging, design, equipment, specialty chemicals and gases, semiconductor grade materials; and
• 
Promote Industrial Parks and workforce development for mutual benefit
3.3.9.8 R&D Road map
• 
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) has announced a planned investment of $400 Mn to establish Collaborative 
Engineering Centre in Bangalore. During the initial 5 years. the center would support $2Bn+ of spending and 
create ~500 advanced engineering jobs. This initiative will facilitate R&D collaboration amongst R&D team of 
Applied Materials, Indian academic institutions and R&D team of vendors of Applied Materials. This will also help 
in development and sourcing of components/sub-assemblies required for the AMAT’s semiconductor equipment.
• 
Advanced Micro Devices: Advanced Micro Device (AMD) announced plan to invest approximately $400 Million 
over the next five years to expand Research, Development and Engineering Operations in India. The planned 
investment includes a new AMD campus in Bangalore, Karnataka that will serve as the company’s largest design 
center, as well as the addition of approximately 3,000 new engineering roles by the end of 2028. AMD committed 
to an investment of $73Mn for Year 2024 and $32Mn for Year 2025 as a part of $400Mn investment. It has hired 
980 Engineers, including 22% women. 
• 
Microchip: Microchip Technology announced a $300 million investment plan to expand its operations in India. To 
strengthen its presence in India, the company has inaugurated a new research and development (R&D) facility 
at One Golden Mile Office Tower in Hyderabad. This 168,000-square-foot center, which has a capacity for 1,000 
employees, joins Microchip’s existing developments in Bengaluru and Chennai. Microchip has added more than 
200 engineers to the workforce. The Phase II office of Microchip is underway to add more than 1200 engineers in 
Chennai.
3.3.10	 Investment Promotion to Attract Investment in ESDM Sector
3.3.10.1 Promotion of ECMS, PLI, SPECS, EMC 2.0 and Schemes for Development of Semiconductors and 
Display Manufacturing Ecosystem in India
To boost investment in India’s Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) sector, the Ministry undertook a 
series of targeted promotion initiatives, including the launch of a new initiate i.e. Electronics Component Manufacturing 
Scheme. Extensive outreach efforts - such as webinars, seminars, roadshows and stakeholder consultations - were 
conducted to highlight the benefits of these schemes. High-level engagements were also facilitated, enabling direct 
interactions between industry representatives and senior MeitY officials to address concerns and provide clarity on 
investment pathways. These efforts have positioned India as a promising destination for ESDM, significantly enhancing 
global awareness and industry interest.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 98
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
96
3.3.10.2 Advocacy and Outreach Programmes
3.3.10.2.1 Launch of ECMS Guidelines and Online Portal
On 26th April, 2025, MeitY organized a launch event for the Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS), 
which marked a major milestone for India’s electronics ecosystem. Hon’ble Minister of Electronics and IT, Ashwini 
Vaishnaw unveiled the scheme guidelines and online portal, with strong participation from government, industry, and 
global stakeholders. The event showcased the scheme’s innovative approach, commitment to Six Sigma standards and 
design excellence, and its focus on employment generation and supply chain integration. The occasion also saw Sarvam 
AI selected to build India’s first indigenous AI foundational model, reflecting India’s growing capabilities in electronics 
and AI. The launch draws attention to India’s robust strategy toward becoming a global electronics manufacturing hub.
 
3.3.10.2.2 5th Electronics Supply Chain Summit
On 16th May 2025, ELCINA organized 5th Electronics Supply Chain Summit at the Radisson Hotel in Sector 18, Noida, 
Uttar Pradesh. Director, MeitY, discussed about the contours of newly notified Electronics Component Manufacturing 
Scheme (ECMS) during the Investors Roundtable. The discussion focused on promoting investment under the ECMS. 
The event brought together EMS manufacturers, component manufacturers, investors, industry associations, and state 
government representatives.
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 99
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
97
3.3.10.2.3 NAMTECH Roundtable on Talent & Capacity Building for Sustainable Manufacturing: Global 
Perspectives, local Action
On 22nd May 2025, NAMTECH organized a Roundtable on “Talent & Capacity Building for Sustainable Manufacturing: 
Global Perspectives, Local Action.” The event was graced by the Union Minister of Electronics & IT and brought 
together industry leaders, academia, and global partners, including MIT and Suzuki, to deliberate on skill development, 
innovation, and sustainable practices in manufacturing. The roundtable also facilitated strategic collaborations with 
partners such as GSV, Siemens, and Applied Materials for developing skilling frameworks and research infrastructure 
in smart manufacturing and emerging technologies. The initiative reinforced NAMTECH’s commitment to creating a 
future-ready workforce and advancing India’s vision of Viksit Bharat 2047.
 
3.3.10.2.4 Roadshows for promotion of Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS) in Andhra 
Pradesh, Pune, Gandhi Nagar and Orissa
In June 2025, to promote investment under the Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS) and to 
sensitize the industry, MeitY organized a series of roadshows at Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh), Pune (Maharashtra), 
Gandhinagar (Gujarat), and Bhubaneswar (Odisha). The roadshows were led by the Joint Secretary and Director, 
MeitY, in collaboration with leading industry associations.
These events witnessed participation from EMS manufacturers, component manufacturers, investors, industry 
associations, and state government representatives. The initiative generated strong interest and has resulted in 
significant traction for ECMS applications.
3.3.10.2.5 Seminar for promotion of Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS)
On 16th June 2025, MeitY, in partnership with the Consulate General of India in Guangzhou, organised a Seminar-cum-
B2B Meet to showcase investment opportunities in India’s consumer electronics sector and promote the Electronics 
Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS). Director, MeitY, outlined the scheme’s investor-friendly framework, 
emphasizing its ease of implementation, global competitiveness, and long-term policy stability. The session generated 
strong interest from global companies and their supply chain partners operating in China.
On 17th June, 2025, MeitY, in collaboration with the Embassy of India in Tokyo, organised an India–Japan Seminar to 
promote participation in the Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS). Secretary, MeitY, highlighted the 
strong India–Japan synergy in the electronics value chain and invited Japanese companies to partner in advancing 
value addition through ECMS beyond PLI-led assembly growth. Director, MeitY, outlined the scheme’s industry-friendly 
features and global competitiveness, positioning ECMS as a compelling opportunity for manufacturing investments 
under the Make in India vision. The seminar received positive response from Japanese industry.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 100
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
98
3.3.10.2.6 AI Infrastructure for Bharat
On 20th June 2025, Joint Secretary Shri Sushil Pal addressed the AI Infrastructure for Bharat event hosted by Netweb 
and NVIDIA. He outlined MeitY’s efforts to position India as a global hub for IT hardware manufacturing, noting that the 
success achieved in mobile manufacturing is now paving the way for a similar transformation in the IT hardware sector. 
With strengthening domestic capabilities and supportive policy interventions, India is set for rapid growth in innovation-
led manufacturing, contributing to both economic expansion and technological self-reliance.
3.3.10.2.7 Investment Promotion Roadshow for Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS), Taiwan
From 9–11 July 2025, a delegation from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), led by Shri 
Sushil Pal, Joint Secretary, visited Taiwan to promote investment in India’s electronics manufacturing sector. The visit 
included an Investment Promotion Roadshow, the India–Taiwan Electronics Supply Chain Roundtable (attended by 
over 60 Taiwanese companies), and focused one-to-one meetings with leading firms such as Advantech, Foxconn, 
Unimicron, Supermicro, Compal, MSI, and others. The delegation highlighted India’s growth in electronics manufacturing, 
the Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS), and Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, while 
encouraging Taiwanese companies to expand their manufacturing footprint in India.
 
3.3.10.2.8 India–Japan Industrial Collaboration and Investment in Electronics Manufacturing, Japan
From 14–19 September 2025, a delegation led by  Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade 
(DPIIT), visited Japan to advance the India–Japan Industrial Competitiveness Partnership.
Joint Secretary, participated in the delegation with a focus on promoting investment in India’s electronics manufacturing 
sector and facilitating partnerships between Japanese companies and Indian industry. 
During the visit, the Joint Secretary held one-on-one meetings with leading Japanese firms, including Air Water, 
FANUC, NIDEC, Sharp, and TDK. The delegation showcased India’s growth in electronics manufacturing, highlighting 
the Electronics Component Manufacturing Scheme (ECMS) and Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, while 
encouraging Japanese companies to expand their manufacturing footprint in India.
3.3.10.2.9 Measures to facilitate Ease of Doing Business
Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC), Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance has decided to exempt 
the Electronics and Semiconductor Manufacturing Sector from application of Section 65A of the Customs Act.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 103
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Make in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
101
The technology has been transferred to M/s SPMCIL and got ordered of more than ` 300 crore from Delhi Excise 
Department etc. The other startup M/s Likhotronics Pvt. Ltd. has been incubated recently for the product Educational 
Kits using special inks. In addition, 5 technologies of the centre have been transferred to industries/start-ups for 
commercialization. Several companies have invested in the centre for R&D, prototype & product developments etc. 
The Centre is working closely with industries to meet their requirement in this thematic area and developed various 
prototypes like Temperature Sensors for Milk Adulteration & Gas Sensors for Food Spoilage, Smart Label with tamper 
evident tracking, OLED Display, Handheld Infrared Thermometer, Screen-printed sensor for Bilirubin detection in 
Serum, Warm Hug/Heater Jackets, TFT Array, Sensor for Breast Cancer detection, Smart IV Bottle, Piano keyboard 
on paper etc. 
Based on achieving of targeted objectives & milestones successfully and steer the centre activities ahead, the Ministry 
of Electronics & IT (MeitY) accorded approval to IIT-Kanpur on 24.11.2023 for initiation of Phase-II activity with a 
project cost of ` 83.08 crore including Government Grant-in-aid of ` 60.00 crore from MeitY, ` 10.00 crore as industry 
contribution and `13.08 crore from IIT-Kanpur. As on date, MeitY has released a Grant-in-aid of `10.79 crores to IIT-K 
towards the Phase-II of the project. Under the Phase-II, prima-facie, the prototypes /technological applications in the 
field of “Level & Packaging, Strategic and Healthcare sector (but not limited to)” has been considered to address the 
technological requirement of the industry/organization in these sectors. The canter facility is available for industry / start-
ups / academia / MSME /other organizations for active collaboration. Under Phase-II, 30 patents have been filed. The 
following 2 Technologies have been transferred to the industry. 
Product /Technology
Industry
Sector
Status
Bilirubin Sensor 
Sensa Core Medical 
Instrumentation Pvt. Ltd.
Healthcare
Technology Licensed to M/s 
Sensa Core
LFIA based strips for 
detection of bovine mastitis
Prompt Equipment Pvt. Ltd.
Milk Safety
Technology Licensed to M/s 
PROMPT Equipment’s
Further, 8 industrial projects have been initiated with relevant stakeholders including industries as well as Govt. 
organizations. Under the Phase-II, 7 prototypes have been developed including sustainable sensing platform for 
electrochemical sensors using sugarcane skin having varied applications from biosensing to heavy metal detection 
and Li ion-based technology (coin cell) having capacity of > 30 mAH and under field trial. A lab prototype of a pouch 
cell battery with 350 mAH capacity has also been developed and demonstrated to provide home-grown technological 
solution for LED lights and power pack applications.
3.3.12.2 Next Generation AMOLED Displays, OLED Lighting and OPV Products
The project “Next Generation AMOLED Displays, OLED Lighting and OPV products: Development of disruptive 
Technologies to enable cost effective electronic component manufacturing in India”, approved by MeitY being 
implemented by IIT Madras with total budget outlay of INR 41.60 Crore, including MeitY’s Grant-in-Aid amounting to 
INR 35.32 Crore. The objective of the centre is to demonstrate state- of-the-art AMOLED based displays developed by 
Fine Metal Mask (FMM) and Closed Space Sublimation (CSS) processes. OPV devices are also being developed for 
roll-to-roll manufacturing. A laboratory has been developed successfully for state-of-the-art research facility. A clean 
area has been set up of area around 3000 sq. ft. There are two parts in the clean area. One is of class 100 and the rest 
of the area is of class 1000. The class 100 area is used for substrate cleaning, which is very crucial for the fabrication. 
Class 1000 area has all the deposition units and is utilized for AMOLED device fabrication.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 106
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
International Cooperation
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
104
in key international events to highlight the potential of Indian IT and software industries. Moreover, the division actively 
works to address challenges related to the export of Indian IT services and the mobility of IT professionals, representing 
these issues at global forums.
Through these efforts, MeitY aims to strengthen India’s position as a key player in the global digital economy, 
promoting its ICT capabilities while ensuring that the country’s interests and expertise are well-reflected in international 
collaborations.
To protect its national interests and advance its digital transformation on the global stage, MeitY has been actively 
engaging with various multilateral forums. These efforts involve collaboration, negotiations, and addressing technical 
and policy matters with key international forums/organizations like the G20, United Nations, WTO, World Bank, BRICS, 
SCO, IPEF, QUAD, ASEAN, G7, ADB, BIMSTEC, Commonwealth, IPU, ITU, SAARC, OECD, and others in the IT/ 
Software and electronics sectors. 
India’s participation in various international forums highlights its commitment to driving digital progress and fostering 
partnerships with global stakeholders. Through these forums, India showcases its achievements, explores opportunities 
for collaboration, and strengthens its influence in shaping the global digital economy.
4.2	
Key Achievements
South Africa’s G20 Presidency 2025: MeitY represented India in G20 Digital Economy Working Group (DEWG), 
Artificial Intelligence Task Force (AITF), and Ministerial Meetings under the South African Presidency in 2025. The DEWG 
meetings focused on discussions and negotiations of the Digital Economy Ministerial Declaration, incorporating the 
proposed priority areas- Universal and equitable digital inclusion through connectivity, usage, and enabling conditions; 
Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) as a key element for digital transformation; digital innovation ecosystems unleashing 
the potential of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs); and equitable, inclusive, trustworthy, and sustainable 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) for good and for all. The AITF meetings focused on deliberations and negotiations of the AITF 
Ministerial Declaration, which emphasized inclusive, ethical, and sustainable AI development, addressing themes such 
as human rights–centred AI, digital sovereignty, bias mitigation, open access, information integrity, responsible use of 
AI, public sector capacity building, and linking AI with sustainability, with data governance as the foundation. 
MeitY negotiated the key issues and put forth the DPI and AI agenda agreed under the Indian Presidency in 2023. 
The Chair’s Statement of the Digital Economy Working Group and the Chair’s Statement of the Task Force on Artificial 
Intelligence, Data Governance and Innovation for Sustainable Development were ultimately adopted during the Digital 
Economy Ministers’ Meeting (DEMM) and the Ministerial Meeting of the AI Task Force, respectively, on September 
29-30, 2025 at Cape Town, South Africa, reaffirming the priorities of the Working Group and the Task Force and 
strengthening commitments on the proposed deliverables.
WEF’s Annual Meeting 2025: The 55th World Economic Forum (WEF) Annual Meeting held in Davos, Switzerland, 
from January 20–24, 2025, provided a significant platform for India to showcase its digital initiatives and strengthen 
global partnerships in the technology sector. The Hon’ble Minister of Electronics and Information Technology, Shri 
Ashwini Vaishnaw led the Indian delegation and participated in several sessions and roundtable discussions with 
global political and business leaders. The Minister underscored India’s strategic vision of leveraging digital and physical 
infrastructure, semiconductor and electronics manufacturing, and inclusive innovation to drive economic growth. India’s 
leadership in Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) and responsible AI development was also highlighted.
WTO Public Forum 2025: Session on DPI – Driving Trade, & Development: MeitY, in collaboration with the Permanent 
Mission of India (PMI) to the WTO, Geneva organized a session on “Digital Public Infrastructure – Driving Trade 
and Development” during the WTO Public Forum 2025 at Geneva. The session showcased India’s DPI journey, from 
AADHAAR and the JAM Trinity (Jan Dhan, AADHAAR, Mobile) to initiatives such as UPI, DigiLocker, ONDC, and the 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 109
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
International Cooperation
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
107
The International Cooperation Division of this Ministry has been pursuing the above objectives through Memorandum of 
Understanding (MoUs), Joint Working Groups (JWG) meetings, Projects in other geographies/ countries, participating in 
major international events to showcase India’s strength and enhance business opportunity for Indian IT Industries. The 
division has also spearheaded the negotiations on Digital Trade chapter under various forums/ Free Trade Agreements 
(FTAs).
To strengthen cooperation with other emerging economies, the MoUs/ Agreements in the field of Digital technologies 
and Semiconductor were signed with Indonesia, Thailand, Japan, Philippines and Netherlands. Further, in order to 
expand India’s Digital capabilities in Digital Public Infrastructure (DPIs), MeitY has signed MoUs on cooperation in the 
field of sharing successful digital solutions implemented at population scale for digital transformation with 5 countries – 
Venezuela, Sri Lanka, Brazil, Lesotho and Maldives. Under the signed MoUs, several virtual technical workshops have 
held to explore areas of cooperation.
4.4	
Major bilateral engagements
1. 	
A bilateral meeting between Hon’ble Minister of Electronics and Information Technology, and Executive Vice-
President for Technological Sovereignty, Security, and Democracy, European Commission, was held on 
February 27, 2025 in New Delhi. Discussions focused on strengthening India-EU cooperation in key areas such 
as microelectronics and supply chain resilience, AI, DPI, high-performance computing and quantum technology, 
digital skills, and telecom and IT standardization.
2. 	
A bilateral meeting under Working Group-1 of the India-EU Trade and Technology Council (TTC) on Strategic 
Technologies, Digital Governance, and Digital Connectivity was co-chaired by Secretary, MeitY, from the Indian 
side, and DG CNECT, European Commission, on February 28, 2025. Discussions focused on enhancing India-
EU collaboration in safe and trusted AI, interoperable DPI standards, creating resilient semiconductor supply 
chains, and aligning research and development priorities in telecom. Both sides reiterated their commitment to 
strengthening the India-EU partnership.
3. 	
The Second Meeting of the India-EU TTC was held in New Delhi on February 28, 2025. Hon’ble Minister for 
Electronics and Information Technology, participated as a co-chair on the Indian side, along with India’s External 
Affairs Minister, and Commerce and Industry Minister. The EU side was co-chaired by Executive Vice-President 
for Tech Sovereignty, Security and Democracy, Commissioner for Trade and Economic Security, Interinstitutional 
Relations and Transparency, and Commissioner for Startups, Research and Innovation. The co-chairs reaffirmed 
their commitment to expanding and deepening engagement under the TTC.
4. 	
A bilateral meeting between Group Coordinator (R&D), MeitY, and a delegation from the Department of Science, 
Innovation and Technology, UK, was held on March 13, 2025, in MeitY. Discussions were held regarding compound 
semiconductors, microelectronics and supply chain resilience, research and development, and skilling.
5. 	
The Second Meeting of the India–South Africa Joint Working Group (JWG) on Information, Communication and 
Technology (ICT), co-chaired Joint Secretary, MeitY, from the Indian side, and Acting Deputy Director General, 
ICT International Relations and Trade, DCDT, from the South African side, was held in Pretoria, South Africa, from 
March 26–28, 2025. Discussions were held regarding cooperation in the areas of Digital Public Infrastructure, 
digital payments ecosystem, artificial intelligence, startup ecosystem, digital skills, and IT/ITeS.
6. 	
A bilateral meeting between Secretary, MeitY, and State Secretary, Federal Ministry for Digital and Transport 
(BMDV), Germany, was held on April 9, 2025, in MeitY. Discussions focused on advancing strategic cooperation 
in resilient and diversified supply chains with emphasis on collaboration in AI, research and development, digital 
skilling, and Digital Public Infrastructure.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 110
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
International Cooperation
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
108
7. 	
A delegation led by Secretary, MeitY, visited the Netherlands from April 28–29, 2025. During the visit, meetings 
were held with Secretary General, Ministry of Economic Affairs, and Director General for Foreign Economic 
Relations, Netherlands. The delegation also held interactions with leading companies and institutions including 
NXP Semiconductors, Philips, HighTech NL, Dutch Research Council (NWO), ASML, and Quantum Delta, and 
visited the ASML Experience Center and the Quantum research facilities at TU Delft. Discussions focused on 
exploring collaboration in semiconductors and related emerging technologies.
8.	
 A Young Leaders’ delegation from various political parties of Nepal to India visited MeitY for an interaction with 
Secretary MeitY on August 4, 2025. Secretary MeitY briefed the delegation about India’s initiatives regarding 
Digital Public Infrastructure, Electronics Manufacturing Ecosystem in India, IndiaAI Mission, Capacity building 
programs and Cyber Security etc.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 111
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
International Cooperation
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
109
9.	
 India–Singapore Joint Working Group on Digital Technologies was held in virtual mode on August 6, 2025. 
The key agenda items included cooperation in Digital Public Infrastructure, collaboration opportunities involving 
DigiLocker, cross-border verification of educational certifications, mutual recognition of e-signatures, sharing best 
practices in data governance and AI, UPI–PayNow linkage, and collaboration between industry and startups.
10.  The first meeting of the Malaysia–India Digital Council (MIDC), co-chaired by Secretary, MeitY, from the Indian 
side, and Secretary General, Ministry of Digital, from the Malaysian side, was held on August 26, 2025, in virtual 
mode. Discussions focused on cooperation in artificial intelligence, digital public infrastructure, digital talent, and 
cybersecurity.
11. 	 A meeting between Secretary, MeitY, and Hon’ble Vice Minister for the Development of Information and 
Communication Technologies, Venezuela, was held on September 16, 2025, in MeitY. Discussions were held 
regarding DigiLocker proof of concept and further cooperation under the signed MoU on sharing successful Digital 
Solutions between the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, India, and the Ministry of People’s 
Power for Science and Technology, Venezuela.
12	
The Working Group-1 of the India-EU Trade and Technology Council (TTC) on Strategic Technologies, 
Digital Governance and Digital Connectivity met on October 31, 2025 to discuss digital priorities ranging from 
semiconductors, digital public infrastructure, and digital skills to AI, high performance and quantum computing, 
and IT and telecom standardisation. The meeting was co-chaired by the Secretary, MeitY and the Director-
General, DG CNECT.
13	
A delegation, led by the Secretary, MeitY, visited the United Arab Emirates to participate as a speaker at the Abu 
Dhabi Global AI Summit during 2–3 November 2025.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 120
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
118
Indian languages. This is being implemented jointly by IIT Madras, IITM Pravartak, and CDAC Chennai. BharatDB 
aims to build a robust database ecosystem, strengthen security and reliability and drive digital transformation. 
BharatDB, a secure, scalable, and modular database platform forked from PostgreSQL 17.4, is being designed for 
enterprise and government workloads. Two beta versions have been developed with several new and improved 
features: Beta 1 included database upgrade validation, role-based auditing, log analysis, job scheduling, vector 
support, and single sign-on, while Beta 2 added SSL by default, multi-factor authentication, enhanced auditing, 
distributed DB with load balancing, and real-time monitoring. It has undergone customer testing to confirm its 
stability and readiness for production. Beta 3 version is currently in development with further enhancements, and 
performance benchmarking is ongoing. The pilot deployment of Bharat DB has been carried out at STPI and City 
Union Bank.
• 
Open Challenge Competition for Development of “Indian Web Browser with built-in CCA India Root 
Certificate: The Indian Web Browser Development Challenge (IWBDC) was launched as a national open challenge 
to foster the development of secure, standards-compliant, and India-centric web browsers. The initiative focused 
on incorporating critical indigenous capabilities such as a built-in CCA India Root Certificate, native in-browser 
digital signing, support for all official Indian languages, parental controls, web filtering, and other essential modern 
browser features. Through a rigorous multi-stage evaluation process, the challenge successfully resulted in the 
development of three finalist browsers, each implementing the mandated indigenous features while leveraging 
open-source browser engines as their foundational platforms.
• 
Indigenous Intelligent and Scalable Neuromorphic Multi Chip for AI Training and Inference Solutions: 
MeitY initiated a research project at IIT Hyderabad, aimed to design and develop an indigenous neuro-morphic 
architecture for AI training and inferencing. The project progresses from FPGA prototyping to System on Chip 
(SOC) realization, leading to fabrication of a MCM (Multi-Chip Module) module which comprises multiple SOCs. 
The team has demonstrated various applications such as image classification, object detection etc on the FPGA 
prototype. The first Chip Tapeout using TSMC 65nm has been completed. Optimization efforts to enhance 
performance, reduce power consumption, minimize chip area, memory integration etc. have been carried out. The 
first AI chip was launched at the T-Chip Semicon Constitution Summit 2025 held in Hyderabad. 
• 
Development of computational protocols for 
designing inhibitors using PARP-1: Breast 
cancer is the most common type of cancer among 
the Indian population, with lack of awareness and 
high cost of treatment leads to lower reporting of 
illnesses. Poly Adenosine Diphosphate Ribose 
polymerase (PARP-1) inhibitors are among a few 
handfuls of targets which play an efficient role 
in treating breast cancer. A project was initiated 
at NIPER, Guwahati for the development of 
computational protocols for designing inhibitors 
using PARP-1 as a model and synthesis & 
biological evaluation of designed inhibitors. 
Machine Learning models for prediction of PARP-
1 activity have been designed and deployed 
as a web-server-based GUI. The work has 
led to publications in high-impact journals and 
development of two webtools: one for assessing 
drug synthesis routes and another for the prediction 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 130
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
128
waveguide components like comparators, vector modulators, amplifiers, isolators, power distribution network, intelligent 
reflecting surfaces and transceivers. 
Significant progress has been made in developing D-band and IRS-based communication systems. D-band antenna 
systems, including plano-convex lens and prime-focus reflector antennas at 140 GHz have been developed, while 
IRS unit cells at 7 GHz, along with complete hardware and controller have been fabricated and characterized for 
non-specular reflection and demonstrated at Indian Mobile Congress (IMC) 2025. Key D-band components such as 
Band Pass Filters (BPFs), Local Oscillator Phased-Locked Loop (LO PLLs), Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit 
(MMIC) housings, and waveguide transitions have been realized, and the first transceiver prototype with Intermediate 
Frequency (IF) up/down converters has been tested with IIT Madras’s baseband unit. SAMEER also showcased a 
145 GHz Line-of-Sight link achieving 6.4 Gbps data transmission using IIT Madras’s baseband signal at IMC 2024 in 
New Delhi. 6G antennas and components were also demonstrated during the “Digital India Future Labs” event in Delhi 
organized by MeitY in February 2024. Further, the team has filed 1 patent and several conference publications.
  
	 D-band Transmitter, Antenna and Baseband unit	
D-band Receiver, Antenna and Baseband unit
7 GHz IRS demo at SAMEER Stall at IMC 2025


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 136
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
134
ecosystem. The Programme focuses on key areas including electronics materials, components and process 
technology, photonics, e-waste recycling (circular economy), IoT sensors, and additive manufacturing. EMDP has 
supported national missions and policies such as the National Policy on Electronics 2019 (NPE 2019) with the objective 
to encourage industry-led R&D and innovation in all sub-sectors of electronics. The strategy emphasizes a top-down 
approach to develop self-sustaining R&D centres through industry partnerships. Under this framework, EMDP continues 
to promote design, engineering, and innovation in advanced materials and components while enabling collaboration 
between industry and academia. The Programme has focused on developing indigenous product prototypes, IPR 
generation, technology transfer, and commercialization through start-ups. During the year, six patents were filed by 
C-MET Hyderabad and C-MET Pune, covering recovery of rare earth elements from e-waste, recycling of photovoltaic 
materials, polymer–carbon composites for 3D printing, flexible heating pads, RFID tag fabrication, and silicon recovery 
from IC chips. To date, the EMDP Programme has filed 118 patents directly through MeitY IPR cell and established 16 
R&D Centres across India. These efforts have strengthened India’s R&D ecosystem by facilitating access to funding, 
know-how, laboratory infrastructure, and scientific manpower while promoting commercialization and self-sustenance 
in electronic materials and component technologies. In total EMCD activities has generated 132 patents through the 16 
R&D centres. 
Project Review and Information Management Electronics (PRIME) system for MeitY:
The Project Review and Information Management Electronics (PRIME) system is MeitY’s unified digital platform for 
end-to-end lifecycle management of all projects across divisions. Developed by C-DAC Noida, PRIME streamlines 
every stage from proposal submission and appraisal to financial sanction, monitoring, and closure & post closure 
enhancing transparency, accountability, and efficiency in R&D and non-R&D scheme management. The portal (www.
meityprime.in) provides role-based dashboards and workflows for all stakeholders including Principal Investigators, 
Group Coordinators, Scientists, Working Group members, PRSG members, and financial and administrative authorities 
up to the Secretary level. Key modules include proposal management, peer review, project tracking, fund utilization, 
performance dashboards, and output–outcome monitoring. The system is integrated with e-Office for seamless 
workflow management and Public Financial Management System (PFMS)  with PFMS for real-time financial data 
synchronization. As of October 2025, PRIME hosts 1,130 projects (including 1,054 ongoing and 76 closed) with 2,785 
registered users and 112 scientists on-board. The system now supports scheme-wise and division-wise analytics 
through dynamic dashboards covering financial trends, milestones, outputs, patents, and publications. Features such 
as autosave, automatic alerts, mobile-Seva integration, and semantic search on the Secretary dashboard to further 
improve user experience and decision support. PRIME represents MeitY’s shift toward a digitally empowered, data-
driven governance framework that links policy, performance, and public accountability. Future enhancements include 
natural-language-based analytics and AI-enabled insights, reinforcing PRIME as a core component of MeitY’s national 
digital infrastructure for managing India’s technology innovation ecosystem.
5.3.2	 Technology Development & Demonstration for Indian Industries
5.3.2.1 Project on “PUSHPAK- National Mission on Drone Technology-Towards Drone Excellence”
The Project on PUSHPAK - National Mission on Drone Technology-Towards Drone Excellence has been initiated in a 
collaborative manner with academia and industries. The project is progressing in development of various sub-systems 
of the drones to have an indigenous eco-system in this specific area. Basic design work of motors, algorithms, autopilot 
system have been completed.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
138
etc. are being arranged. 6 technology functions / ToT programs are conducted with active involvement of MeitY officials, 
including Secretary, along with members from railway, MoP, MNRE, DST.
  
5.3.2.7.1 Design and Development of Propulsion System for 3 phase Electric Locomotives:
The Ministry of Electronics and IT, in collaboration with the Ministry of Railways, has initiated a national effort to develop 
an indigenous propulsion system for three-phase electric locomotives, addressing challenges arising from obsolete GTO-
based technologies, discontinued ASIC components, and proprietary communication standards. Building on C-DAC 
Thiruvananthapuram’s successful development and deployment of VCU and TCN technologies now operational in over 
3,000 locomotives, the initiative proposes the design and development of Traction Converter technology, engineering 
of the Auxiliary Converter, and transfer of the VCU technology for Train Control and Management System (TCMS). 
The project will be implemented through a consortium of C-DAC, CLW, and Indian Railways–identified industries with 
joint financial support from MeitY, the Ministry of Railways, and industry partners. This programme aims to strengthen 
domestic capability, reduce dependence on foreign suppliers, and advance the vision of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and 
‘Design and Make in India’. The expected outcome is a fully indigenous propulsion system including traction converter, 
auxiliary converter and VCU with TCMS, ready for adoption by Indian Railways and further commercialization through 
qualified industry partners. This will be the highest (5000kW) power electronics converter technology development for 
propulsion in the country.
5.3.2.7.2 Development of Planar Magnetic Components for MHz Applications and customization for Electronics 
& Radar Development Establishment (LRDE’s)(DRDO) Active Phase Array Radar (APAR)
The Ministry of Electronics and IT, under the National Mission on Power Electronics Technology (NaMPET), has initiated 
an advanced R&D project on the development of Planar Magnetic components for MHz Applications in Active Phased 
Array Radar (APAR) systems. The project aims to establish indigenous capability in high-frequency, high–power-density 
planar magnetics to address critical requirements of APAR systems developed by LRDE, DRDO. The initiative focuses 
on designing, fabricating, and testing compact planar inductors and 
transformers operating in 1 MHz range, with lower form factors, to 
meet the demanding size, efficiency, and thermal constraints of 
modern radar platforms. The project aims to develop planar 
magnetics for both ground-based and airborne APAR systems, 
along with a dedicated magnetics test bench and encapsulation 
techniques for rugged operation. The outcome is expected to reduce 
import dependence, enable customization for strategic applications, 
and support domestic production of high-power-density converters, 
benefitting defense, aerospace, radar manufacturers, and high-
frequency power electronics industries.
Planer Magnetics based sub-systems


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 146
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
144
Clockwise from Top Left. CBCT final system design, Extra Oral Scanner Prototype, 
CBCT Reconstructed Image, Implant Planning system , CBCT Workbench
5.3.3	 Initiatives under Microelectronics and Nanotechnology areas
5.3.3.1	 Some of the technologies developed/are being developed indigenously under the R&D projects initiated 
in Microelectronics area are:
5.3.3.1.1 Chips to Start-up (C2S) Programme 
Refer Chapter 7.
5.3.3.1.2 Design Linked Incentive (DLI) Scheme
Government of India has approved the ‘Modified Programme for Semiconductors and Display Fab Ecosystem’ with an 
outlay of `76,000 crore in order to catalyse the semiconductor & display ecosystem in the country. The Design Linked 
Incentive (DLI) Scheme has been approved as part of it with an outlay of Rs. 1000 Crore to offset the disabilities in 
the domestic semiconductor chip design industry as well as move up in value-chain and strengthen the semiconductor 
chip design ecosystem in the country. The DLI Scheme offers financial incentives & design infrastructure support to 
domestic companies, start-ups and MSMEs across various stages of development & deployment of semiconductor 
chips. Under DLI Scheme
• 
94 companies have been approved for access to state-of-the-art Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 147
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
145
• 
24 projects have been sanctioned for financial support to design chips for various applications such as surveillance 
camera, radar for drone detection, energy meter, microprocessor IPs, networking applications, and more.
• 
Out of these, twelve (12) companies have successfully completed prototype tape-outs at various semiconductor 
foundries and raised venture capital (VC) funding for scaling up their design prototypes for commercialization.
Microprocessor Development Programme: 
As part of the Microprocessor Development Programme, C-DAC has earlier successfully completed the design and 
development of the VEGA series of microprocessors including India’s first indigenous 64-bit multi-core RISC-V based 
Superscalar Out-of-Order Processor. The VEGA series comprise of 32/64-bit Single/Dual/Quad Core superscalar Out-
of-Order high performance processor cores based on RISC-V Instruction Set 
Architecture. Currently six variants of these indigenous Processors are available, 
that has state-of-the-art architecture and performance at par with other commercially 
available processors and is targeted for various strategic/industrial/commercial 
applications. Several SoC chips integrating the VEGA Processor with various 
System, Communication and Peripheral IPs have also been successfully taped out 
earlier including the ‘THEJAS32’ a 32-bit VEGA Single Core Processor based SoC 
and the ‘THEJAS64’ a 64-bit VEGA Single Core Processor based SoC. The 
‘THEJAS64’ SoC that was fabricated at the Indian foundry SCL, Chandigarh and is 
the first fully indigenous 64-bit VEGA based System-on-Chip (SoC) designed for 
embedded applications.
C-DAC has recently successfully developed India’s first fully homegrown Dual Core Processor based SoC ‘DHRUV64’. 
The1GHz 64-bit ‘DHRUV64’ System-on-Chip (SoC) is the third chip based on the VEGA series of indigenous RISC-V 
processors designed for robust and compute-intensive embedded applications. The SoC integrates the power of the 
VEGA AS2161 16-stage O-o-O Dual Core high performance Processor with various communication interfaces and 
peripherals in a FCBGA package. The processor supports single and double precisions floating point instructions and 
an MMU suitable for Linux based applications. 
Designed, developed and validated entirely in India, DHRUV64 supports embedded and IoT applications in the areas 
of Industrial automation, Networking, Medical Electronics and Consumer Electronics.
As part of proliferation of the indigenous VEGA processor, more than 800 members of academia and industry trained 
on VEGA processors as part of 13 workshops conducted. VEGA processor and peripherals licensed to M/s IndieSemiC, 
Ahmedabad, IIT Indore and IIIT, Pune.
5.3.3.2 	Some of the technologies developed / are being developed indigenously under the R&D projects 
initiated in Nanotechnology area are :
5.3.3.2.1 Products/prototypes/technologies developed and MoU signed/collaboration under the Nanotechnology 
Initiatives Division:
• 
Health Technologies: Making Diagnostics Accessible and Affordable
	
MeitY-supported innovations are transforming healthcare by making diagnostics faster, cheaper, and more 
accessible—even in remote areas.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 149
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
147
5.3.3.2.2 Startups in different domains have been incubated during the reporting period:
Two startups namely, Spectrofab Pvt. Ltd & Gunsutra Pvt. Ltd. have been incubated under the MeitY funded 
“Nanoelectronics Network for Research and Applications (NNetRA)” at IIT Delhi. 
5.3.3.2.3 Publications 
74 research articles have been published in National and International journals in the reported duration. Out of these, few 
are published in highly reputed journals namely: Nature (I.F. 69.5), Nature Electronics (I.F.40.9) and Nature Materials 
(I.F. 47.65).
5.3.3.2.4 National/International Patent
28 patents have been filed, and 5 patents have been granted in the reported duration.
5.3.3.2.5 Societal Outreach activities 
• 
Nanoelectronics Roadshow 
	
The MeitY, in partnership with IISc Bengaluru, IIT Bombay, IIT Madras, IIT Delhi, IIT Kharagpur, and IIT Guwahati, 
successfully hosted the national level event “Nano Electronics Roadshow” at IISc Bengaluru. The roadshow was 
inaugurated by Secretary, MeitY, along with Additional Secretary, MeitY. This marked a significant milestone 
in India’s vision of a self-reliant semiconductor ecosystem. The roadshow showcased over 100 intellectual 
properties (IPs), more than 50 groundbreaking technologies, and the innovation of over 35 promising startups 
all backed by six state-of-the-art nanoelectronics centres across the country. Taking forward Hon’ble Prime 
Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s clarion call for Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the event highlighted India’s technological 
leadership in the electronics and semiconductor domain, driven by cutting-edge research and innovation at Nano 
centers established by the MeitY within the IISc and IIT ecosystem. The roadshow served as a platform for 
over 700 industry leaders, policymakers, and academics to explore areas of collaboration around strategies for 
strengthening India’s nanoelectronics ecosystem.
• 
Brainstorming session on neuromorphic computing at IIT Delhi on 16th April 2025
	
A national level brainstorming session was held at IIT Delhi, bringing together over 40 experts from premier 
institutions to chart a strategic roadmap for indigenous development in neuromorphic technologies. The aim of 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 153
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
151
No.
Technology available for ToT
Description
3
Development 
of 
Lithium 
(Nickel 
Manganese Cobalt) oxide as cathode 
material for Li-ion batteries.
The NMC-111 offers better temperature and cycling stability when 
compared to the LCO.
4
Development of Sodium Vanadium 
Phosphate (NVP) as cathode material 
for Na-ion batteries
Sodium vanadium phosphate (Na3V2(PO4)3-NVP) a NASICON-type 
material with exceptionally high ionic conductivity is acknowledged 
as a potential cathode for high-performance
5.4.4 Graphene Aurora
A graphene-based RF printable antenna prototype was developed using graphene ink, and a TRL-3 hemoglobin 
biosensor using rGO-modified electrodes demonstrated reproducible performance with potential for clinical applications. 
Fire-resistant graphene-reinforced coatings were developed for EV battery housings and were found to meet AIS-156, 
IS 17855:2022, and UL-94 V-0 safety standards. A pilot supply of graphene-based structural coatings was completed for 
Aero Alloys. In addition, graphene manufacturing and scale-up partnerships were established with Adnano, Capattery, 
Terracarb, Graphenera, and masterbatch manufacturers including Bhagyashree and Indradhanush.
Internship programs were launched to support translational research and commercialization, with engineering and 
science interns contributing to electronics circuit design and graphene technology development.
5.4.5	 Centre for Programmable Photonic Integrated Circuit and Systems (CPPICS): 
A programmable Photonic Integrated Circuit (PIC) is next-generation reconfigurable photonic processor platform with 
wide-ranging applications in quantum computing, quantum communication, 5G/6G communications, IoT, radar, and 
avionics. To build indigenous capability in this domain, MeitY has established the Centre for Programmable Photonic 
Integrated Circuits and Systems (CPPICS) at IIT Madras, under the Centre of Excellence (CoE) initiative, in collaboration 
with industry partners. The Centre focuses on R&D, design, and fabrication of programmable photonic integrated circuits 
and systems using CMOS-compatible silicon photonics technology. It has successfully developed several technologies, 
including a Fiber Optic Array Attachment Tool for PIC packaging, RF filters and microwave photonic oscillators 
(operating up to 60 GHz), and an indigenously built Quantum Random Number Generator (QRNG) based on silicon 
photonics. The QRNG has been successfully transferred to industry through a `1 crore technology licensing agreement 
with Indrarka Quantum Technologies Pvt. Ltd., marking a major milestone in India’s photonic innovation ecosystem. 
Since inception, CPPICS has trained 71 specialized manpower, produced 28 research publications, demonstrated 
two proof-of-concept technologies, filed six IPRs, transferred one technology to industry, and engaged two industries 
and one start-up, generating `55.07 lakh in self-sustenance revenue. The Centre aims to achieve self-reliance in 
photonic processor design and packaging within five years through commercialization, industry collaboration, and skill 
development, positioning India as a key player in silicon photonics and programmable photonic computing. 
5.4.6	 National Centre for Quantum Accelerator Chip using Lithium Niobate (NCQAC)
The National Centre for Quantum Accelerator Chip (NCQAC) has been established at IIT Kharagpur in partnership 
with C-MET Pune and M/s New Age Instruments & Materials, Gurugram. The Centre aims to develop indigenous 
photonic integrated circuit (PIC) technology using Lithium Niobate on Insulator (LNOI) for ambient-temperature 
quantum accelerator chips (QACs) with applications across education, R&D, financial modeling, and high-performance 
computing. NCQAC focuses on the complete LNOI technology value chain from wafer growth and thin-film deposition 
at C-MET Pune to design, fabrication, and packaging of photonic quantum chips at IIT Kharagpur. Major achievements 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 154
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
152
include successful design and fabrication of rib and strip-loaded waveguides, 3-dB couplers, and periodically poled LNOI 
(PPLN) structures for nonlinear optics. State-of-the-art facilities are being created, including ISO-6/7/8 cleanrooms, 
PIC design and lithography labs, and quantum application laboratories. A total of 18 trained manpower and multiple 
academic collaborations (University of Paris-Saclay, University of Sorbonne, University of Paderborn, TCG Crest) have 
been established.
The project is progressing toward fabrication of full LNOI-based Quantum Accelerator Chips by FY 2026, supported 
by industrial participation for packaging and commercialization, positioning India as a key player in global photonic-
quantum computing technologies.
5.4.7	 National Strategy for Additive Manufacturing (NSAM) 
Additive Manufacturing (AM), is a key enabler of Industry 4.0 and 5.0, integrating digital design, simulation, and 
fabrication to create complex components layer by layer. AM enhances productivity, flexibility, and sustainability, 
enabling rapid prototyping, mass customization, and distributed production. It supports UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) through material efficiency, reduced emissions, and localized manufacturing. For India, AM presents 
a transformative opportunity to strengthen indigenous manufacturing, reduce imports, and advance toward a USD 
1.45 trillion manufacturing economy by 2030, positioning the nation as a global hub for advanced and sustainable 
manufacturing. In this direction, India launched National Strategy for Additive Manufacturing (NSAM) in 2022 for 
development and deployment of AM technologies in India aspiring to achieve $1 billion Indian AM market. The program 
is being implemented through seven development and deployment centres and R&D projects.
5.4.7.1	 National Centre on Additive Manufacturing (NCAM) 
• 
National Centre for Additive Manufacturing (NCAM) is a company registered under section 8(1) of the Companies 
Act 2013. The NCAM is established by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Government 
of India and ITE&C Department, Government of Telangana has been established in Hyderabad, Telangana, in 
partnership with industry.
• 
The NCAM is established as an independent agency to build a comprehensive ecosystem of additive manufacturing 
in the country by enabling the adoption in the industry, prototyping new products and focusing on indigenization, 
access to state-of-the-art infrastructure, enabling research and development of standards, enabling key foreign 
players to establish their manufacturing units and new product development, and promoting skill development 
activities to generate quality manpower.
• 
The vision of NCAM is “To create and enable a sustainable ecosystem for product innovation in India with 
emphasis on research, design, development, and testing through collaborative efforts between academia, industry 
and government using the disruptive technology of Additive Manufacturing”. NCAM acts as the central agency 
to promote, foster, and drive the adoption of additive manufacturing technology in India to make the country 
AtmaNirbhar in the sector.
• 
The Centre has engaged 20 start-ups with a focus on generating IPR. NCAM has organized workshops, seminars, 
and conferences for delegates across India, cumulatively benefiting over 69,000 professionals. A total of 25 
Faculty Development Programs were conducted across various states including Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, 
Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana. Additionally, NCAM has 
conducted 34 Additive Expert Talks and collaborated with industry partners to organize seven international events 
in Delhi, Mumbai, Warangal, and Hyderabad. These events exhibited new technology and audience gained 
knowledge on the subject. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 155
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
153
5.4.7.2	 National Additive Manufacturing Centre West (NAMC-W)
• 
Under the AM initiative, the project “Establishment of National Additive Manufacturing Centre West (NAMCW) at 
Ganpat University, Gujarat – India” had been initiated in collaboration with the State Government of Gujarat and 
industry stakeholders, seeks to augment AM adoption across six western states, aligning with NSAM’s aspirations.
• 
NAMCW endeavours to create a self-sustainable facility for product development and training, promote the 
commercialization of AM products, foster skilled manpower, and instil future-ready skills among students through 
Science, Technology, Environmental, Advanced Manufacturing, or STEAM learning. By nurturing the domestic 
AM ecosystem through awareness programs, NAMCW aims to bolster inclusive growth and empower the AM 
manufacturing industry, spanning large enterprises, MSMEs, and startups, in line with the vision of ‘Atmanirbhar 
Bharat’. To date, the centre has supported three startups and trained over 3,500 individuals through executive 
programs, certification courses, and B.Tech/M.Tech awareness programs. 
5.4.7.3 CoE on Additive Manufacturing- Optoelectronics Sector
• 
Additive Manufacturing (AM) is disruptive set of technologies which are bringing fundamental change in how 
manufacturing is carried out in many sectors due to its ability for mass customization. AM is enabler for digital 
manufacturing which has capability in producing products directly from design data by adding layers of material 
to obtain the final shape with minimal waste, supporting Industry 4.0. 
• 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has initiated a Centre of Excellence on Additive 
Manufacturing at Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology (C-MET), Pune in collaboration with Central 
Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology (CIPET), Bhubaneswar. 
• 
The objectives of the centre are to support Indian Additive Manufacturing Eco-system through focused and 
coordinated research, design and development in collaboration with 3 participating industries. The centre is 
expected to achieve self-sustenance and focus on developing indigenous materials and machine technologies 
for electronics manufacturing sector. 
• 
In current phase of the project, 36 product/PoCs (material, machine, 3D printed products) have been developed. 
The project is also bringing opportunities for Indian companies to develop their own AM material and machine 
technologies for global market at much reduced R&D cost for any sector (not limited to electronics) such as aero­
space, medical, automotive etc. The centre is also training manpower to support growth of AM economy in India. 
5.4.7.4	 Centre for Promotion of Additive Manufacturing: Optical Computing Chips (OCC)
• 
Optical computational chips and photonic devices finds application in various fields of technologies such as 
communication, computation, healthcare, automation, sensor and defense. However, although they have shown 
plethora of applications, their industrial viability is mainly limited by their fabrication process which involves 
presence of foundries, numerous process- equipments and steps. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 156
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
154
• 
In recent years, Additive Manufacturing (AM) processes are bringing fundamental change in how manufacturing 
is carried out in many sectors due to its ability for scalable, cost effective and sustainable fabrication process. AM 
is an enabler for digital manufacturing which has capability in producing products directly from design data by 
adding layers of material to obtain the final shape with minimal wastage. 3D printing in optical computing chip for 
global market
• 
The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has initiated a centre on Additive Manufacturing 
based Cost-Effective Optical Computing Chips at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore (IISc) in collaboration with 
Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology (C-MET), Pune. 
• 
The objective of the centre is to design and fabricate global state of the art 3D printer to achieve sub-micron 
resolution, indigenous materials for printing and to design & fabricate optical devices for computation. The centre 
is expected to achieve self-sustenance and focus on developing indigenous materials and machine technologies 
for photonics manufacturing sector. 
• 
The centre is also bringing opportunities for Indian companies to develop their own AM material and machine 
technologies for global market at much reduced R&D cost for any sector (not limited to photonics) such as 
aerospace, medical, automotive etc. The centre has designed and developed 3 materials, 2 machine and 1 
software. Additionally, training has been provided to 65 personnel. 
5.4.7.5	 CoE on Additive Manufacturing: Medical Device Sector
• 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has initiated a Centre of Excellence on Additive 
Manufacturing at Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone, Vishakapatnam, Andhra Pradesh which will support Medical 
Device Sector. 
• 
The vision of the centre is to make COE at AMTZ a hub (common facility for local AM industry which will offset 
disabilities for competing with global peers) for medical device innovation in India by nurturing various medical 
device start-ups through Additive Manufacturing (AM) technology. 
• 
Through this centre sustainable long-term ecosystem will be provided to start-ups and industries which will enable 
medical device innovation in India; build skill-sets in the AM industry, in particular AM in the medical industry to 
achieve competitive advantages in the global market; promote creation of Indian IPR & facilitate IPR filing activity 
and offer industry, academia, global linkages to provide market access to the incubated products. 
• 
The CoE has achieved several milestones both in skill development and technology development. Over 2400 
manpower were trained in 3D printing, Medical Device Design, Prototyping and Testing in CoE AM - MDS. CoE 
is successful in establishing production of materials and products which earlier were under import dependency. 
The CoE developed 4 materials, 5 machines, 2 softwares and 9 AM products. The CoE also created capacities 
to deliver the highest quality small metal components with outstanding levels of chemistry control, strength, and 
density across a wide range of alloys. 
5.4.7.6  Centre for Promotion of Additive Manufacturing - Agri & Food Processing (CPAM – A & FP)
• 
The Center for Additive Manufacturing (CPAM), established under the Additive Manufacturing (AM) initiative of 
MeitY at the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Kolkata, pioneers a groundbreaking concept of 
Agri-factories. 
• 
These facilities integrate agri-produce lines with value-added agri-product lines, ensuring control over quality, 
quantity, and costs. Through this innovative approach, dependency on open agri-produce markets diminishes. 
CPAM’s mission encompasses enhancing time-to-market, market resilience, and establishing product-
independent manufacturing lines for value-added agri-products, introducing AM to the sector for the first time 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 157
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
155
globally. Additionally, AM will streamline production by creating supply chain components such as agri-produce 
line modules and agri-photonics components, thereby reducing costs.
• 
Collaborating with institutions like CSIR - Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysuru, Central 
Manufacturing Technology Institute, Bengaluru, and IIM Calcutta Innovation Park, CPAM aims to indigenously 
develop the Agri-Factory concept and AM machinery and materials. 
• 
This initiative aligns with the government’s vision to propel Indian brands in international markets, particularly in 
the food processing sector, as evidenced by the significant investment outlined in the Ministry of Food Processing 
Industries’ annual report. CPAM’s vision to catalyze product-oriented research and development in the agri and 
environment sectors is reinforced by its mission to enhance productivity, food safety, security, and inclusive 
growth through ICT and electronics-driven solutions. 
• 
The center’s objectives encompass controlling the quality and volume of agricultural lines, reducing infrastructure 
and food processing costs through 3D printing, fostering industry-driven economics, and promoting indigenous 
machinery and supply chains. Its scope includes designing and establishing Agri-Factory test beds, developing 
Agri-Factory technology, establishing a business office for self-sustenance, and preparing techno-commercial 
roadmaps for Agri-Factory development. The centre has trained 34 manpower, filed 2 IPRs and developed 2 proof 
of concept. 
5.4.7.7 Centre for Promotion of Additive Manufacturing: Renewable Energy & distributed Manufacturing using 
Customized 4D & 3D Technologies
• 
The project entitled as “Establishment of Center for Promotion of Additive Manufacturing (CPAM): Renewable 
Energy & Distributed Manufacturing using Customized 4D & 3D Technologies (CPAM: RE & DM), under AM 
initiative, has been established at Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh).
• 
The centre aims to focus on development of indigenous manufacturing technologies (3D printable material, 3D 
printing machines, DfAM, and 3D printed products) for the Renewable Energy Sector. Additionally, machine-
independent low-cost solutions for Distributed Manufacturing will also be developed to promote AM based 
Distributed Manufacturing.  
• 
The initiative focuses on building a sustainable ecosystem that supports decentralized production, development 
of green and smart materials, and advanced manufacturing processes. It also aims to strengthen skills in additive 
manufacturing, promote startups and IPR generation, and provide sustainable solutions tailored to the Himalayan 
region. The centre has trained 16 manpower and produced 6 publications.
5.4.8	 National Centre for Quantum Manufacturing Technology (NCQMT)
The National Centre for Quantum Material Technologies (NCQMT) at C-MET, Pune, established by the Ministry of 
Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) aims to develop indigenous quantum-grade materials critical for India’s 
quantum computing, communication, and sensing ecosystem. The Centre focuses on diamond, hexagonal boron nitride 
(h-BN), two-dimensional materials, superconducting films (NbN, NbTiN), and quantum dots to support next-generation 
quantum technologies. The Centre has successfully grown single-crystal and polycrystalline diamond substrates using 
an indigenous Microwave Plasma CVD system, achieving up to 1.5 mm thickness with high crystallinity. It has also 
synthesized large-area (100 × 50 mm) h-BN films and monolayer MoS₂. Further, NCQMT has developed quantum 
dots (ZnS, ZnSe, ZnTe, AuAg, graphene, and perovskite) for optoelectronic and sensing applications. To strengthen 
translational R&D, NCQMT has partnered with M/s M/s HHV Advanced Technologies Pvt. Ltd (Bengaluru) and other 
industries for co-development of machinery, process and other quantum related technologies. The Centre has trained 
25 specialized manpower, filed two IPRs on 2D material synthesis and large-area h-BN growth, and established key 
indigenous facilities including MPCVD, ALD, and CVD systems, confocal microscopy, and optical spectroscopy setups. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 158
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
156
NCQMT is supporting the goals of the National Quantum Mission through indigenous innovation, technology transfer, 
and start-up incubation. 
5.4.9	 MeitY-NSF: Machine Learning Guided 3D Printing of Self-Healing Sustainable Concrete from Waste 
Materials
• 
Concrete, primarily composed of Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC), is the most widely used construction material 
globally. However, OPC production contributes nearly 8% of human-induced global carbon emissions, making the 
development of sustainable alternatives a key environmental priority. Furthermore, the brittle nature of concrete 
leads to frequent structural damage due to environmental exposure. To address these challenges, the proposed 
project focuses on developing 3D-printed sustainable, self-healing concrete using industrial waste materials and 
marine organisms, supported by machine learning (ML)-driven autonomous printing technology.
• 
The project aims to create sustainable, self-healing concrete by replacing OPC and natural aggregates with spent 
foundry sand and recycled PET plastic, while incorporating carbonic anhydrase enzyme to enable autonomous 
crack healing through calcium carbonate deposition. It also targets multifunctionality through dual-nozzle 3D 
printing of multilayer concrete with silk–algae hydrogel coatings—silk waste providing thermal insulation and 
algae supporting CO₂ capture and O₂ generation. 
5.4.10	 MeitY-NSF: Alloy Design and Processing Science for Additive Manufacturing of Rare Earth Permanent 
Magnets
• 
Additive manufacturing (AM) of rare-earth magnets is gaining importance for its ability to create complex designs 
with minimal material waste. These magnets are vital for green energy systems such as wind turbines and electric 
vehicles. The project focuses on developing AM processes to fabricate high-performance isotropic and anisotropic 
magnet. 
• 
The project focuses on alloy design, process optimization, and fabrication of dense magnet with high coercivity. 
It aims to establish standardized AM processes, develop tailored alloy compositions, and explore potential for 
industrial-scale production. The objectives include achieving high coercivity, understanding process–microstructure 
correlations, and producing magnets with an optimal balance of remanence and coercivity.
5.4.11 	 MeitY-NSF: Energy-Efficient Quantum Materials-Based Magnetic Tunnel Junctions for Unconventional 
Computing Applications
• 
Advancements in technology have created a demand for smaller, faster, non-volatile, and energy-efficient spintronic 
devices. Spin-based devices, such as magnetic memory (hard drives and MRAM) and spin logic systems, are 
also being explored for emerging computing paradigms like bioinspired, probabilistic, and Ising-based computing. 
The key challenge lies in identifying suitable materials that combine high speed, low power consumption, non-
volatility, and long endurance. Magnetic tunnel junctions (MTJs), consisting of two magnetic layers separated by 
an insulating barrier, are central to many spintronic applications, including probabilistic computing. 
• 
The project aims to develop quantum materials-based magnetic tunnel junctions (MTJs) for energy-efficient 
computing. It aims to overcome limitations of conventional systems through Stochastic Computing Computational 
Random-Access Memory (SC-CRAM) built on quantum MTJs. 
5.4.12	 CoE on products based on Li-ion (Post Cell): 
• 
In order to boost the mobile and other electronic industries in the country, a Centre of Excellence (CoE) for 
Products based on Li-ion Cells (Post-Cell) has been set up at CDAC Noida in association with the Industry 
Association – India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) & financially sponsored by Ministry of Electronics 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 170
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Innovate and Design in India
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
168
successfully recorded and benchmarked against the GE-4C probe. It has also been validated as per ISO and 
IEC requirements for biocompatibility and electrical safety. Clinical trial protocols are approved, and fabrication of 
additional is in progress for clinical trials. These achievements mark an important step towards self-reliant medical 
imaging and open the path for developing advanced ultrasound transducers in India.
• 
Self-contained X-ray blood irradiator system:
	
The self-contained X-ray blood irradiator system uses high-dose X-rays to treat blood products and prevent 
transfusion-associated graft versus host disease (TA-GVHD) in immuno-compromised patients. SAMEER has 
developed two such units with financial support from MeitY. The system is fully shielded, safe, reliable, and 
provides a consistent high dose rate without requiring additional radioprotection measures.
 
Electrical safety testing has been completed and certification obtained. SAMEER has also received AERB 
authorization as an approved supplier of X-ray blood irradiator systems, and the CDSCO test licence is in place. 
All required AERB radiation safety QA tests have been completed and submitted for type approval, and the AERB 
inspection process is currently underway. Once type approval is granted, the indigenous system will be deployed 
at the user hospital for clinical validation.
• 
Design and Development of EEG Based Real-Time Depth of Anesthesia (DoA) Monitoring System: 
	
The project aims to develop an indigenous real-time Depth of Anesthesia (DoA) monitoring system using EEG 
signals. A machine learning model is being trained on a locally compiled clinical EEG database, which will help 
improve the accuracy of DoA estimation for all age groups and for different anesthetic drugs. The trained model 
is implemented on an FPGA to validate the software results on hardware.
	
Clinical EEG data from 1,581 surgical patients have been collected and processed. Using reverse feature 
elimination, 11 key EEG features were identified. A Neural Network Regression model was developed. The 
hardware architecture for the Pre-Processing Unit, Feature-Extraction Unit, and Machine Learning Unit has been 
designed, implemented on FPGA, and successfully validated with clinical data. An FPGA-based prototype was 
also tested in real time during surgery at JNIMS Imphal. The ASIC design, including RTL and physical design, has 
been completed, and a fabrication of ASIC is yet to done. 
• 
Development of focused Compact Microwave Hyperthermia Applicator for small cancerous tumors:
	
The project aims to design and develop a non-invasive, compact, and focused hyperthermia applicator operating 
in the ISM band (2.45 GHz) for the treatment of superficial melanoma lesions and small tumors located in sensitive 
regions such as the face, neck, and nose. By combining focused RF power delivery with integrated temperature 
monitoring, the system provides a precise and localized therapeutic option for controlled hyperthermia treatment.
	
A prototype applicator has been successfully designed, fabricated, and evaluated (Fig. 1a). The applicator 
uses a double-spiral antenna along with a reflector structure (Fig. 1b) to improve forward radiation and achieve 
better focusing at the target depth. Experimental testing was carried out to study temperature rise and Specific 
Absorption Rate (SAR) using ex-vivo tissue samples (Fig. 1c) and head-simulating liquid phantoms (Fig. 1d) at 
2.45 GHz.
	
The primary objective of these measurements was to quantify the SAR distribution at different depths inside the 
phantom to assess the focusing capability and therapeutic effectiveness of the applicator.
• 
Development of High Energy Linac for Medical and other Applications
	
The project focuses on the design and development of a high-energy electron Linear Accelerator (LINAC) capable 
of accelerating electrons up to 30 MeV with a beam power of 5–10 kW. Such a LINAC has significant applications 
in medical radioisotope production (especially Mo-99/Tc-99m), neutron imaging, non-destructive testing, and 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 201
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Skill India:
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
199
utilizing advanced tools. Key objectives include promoting awareness of cyber laws, enhancing data security, enabling 
efficient technology use in governance, building incident response capacity, fostering collaboration among stakeholders, 
and bridging the digital divide in remote areas. The program also emphasizes public awareness, integrates a Learning 
Management System (LMS), and develops a Virtual Training Environment (VTE) for hands-on cyber security training.
By December 2025, the Resource Centre’s have trained 
8,714 Government Officials. The Awareness training 
(6 hrs) has been completed, and the Basic training (20 
hours) is currently ongoing. Additionally, cybersecurity 
labs have been established in each Northeast (NE) state 
capital (8 locations) and in 9 selected district locations 
across NE states, making a total of 17 fully set-up labs. 
The development of a Virtual Training Environment (VTE) 
has been completed, and the Learning Management 
System (LMS) is fully developed and live.
7.4.6	 Finishing School Program on 3D Printing & Additive Manufacturing Technology for Engineering Students 
of West Bengal and Bihar:
The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has approved the project titled “Finishing School 
Program on 3D Printing & Additive Manufacturing Technology for Engineering Students of West Bengal and Bihar” for 
a duration of 60 months, from 05.08.2024. The programme is being implemented to establish state-of-the-art Centres 
of Excellence (CoEs) equipped with modern 3D printing and additive manufacturing facilities in selected engineering 
colleges across West Bengal and Bihar. The primary objective of the project is to equip engineering students and 
youth with industry-relevant theoretical knowledge and hands-on skills in emerging manufacturing technologies. The 
programme focuses on bridging the industry–academia gap through practical modules, workshops, and boot-camp 
programmes aligned with current and future industrial requirements. 
By December 2025, 7 state-of-the-art Centres of Excellence (CoEs) have been established across West Bengal and 
Bihar as regional hubs for training and innovation in 3D Printing and Additive Manufacturing Technology. These centres 
are equipped with advanced 3D printing systems covering multiple technologies such as FDM, LDM, PolyJet, SLA, and 
DMLS, along with post-processing facilities including Ultrasonic Cleaners, Water Jet systems, Agitation Tanks, and 
Sintering Stations. Structured Light 3D Scanners have also been deployed to support reverse engineering applications. 
1,360 students have successfully completed the training programme, while an additional 530 students are currently 
undergoing training. 
7.4.7	 Chips to Startup (C2S) Programme
Chips to Start-up (C2S) Programme is an umbrella programme initiated by Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MeitY) with an outlay of Rs. 250 Crore for 5 years in the year 2022 with an aim to generate 85,000 number 
of industry-ready manpower at B.Tech, M.Tech, and PhD levels specialized in semiconductor chip design, VLSI (Very 
Large-Scale Integration) and embedded system design areas and create vibrant fabless chip design ecosystem in the 
country. Against the target of generation of 85,000 manpower by the year 2027, total 67,000 manpower at B.Tech, 
M.Tech & PhD levels have been enrolled till date and are being trained under the Programme.
The Programme takes a comprehensive approach by offering students complete hands-on experience in chip design, 
fabrication, and testing. This is achieved through regular training sessions, conducted in collaboration with industry 
partners, and by providing mentorship and access to chip design, fabrication & testing resources to students, including 
state-of-the-art EDA (Electronic Design Automation) tools, access to semiconductor foundries for fabricating their chips 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 202
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Skill India:
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
200
etc. These opportunities include implementing the R&D projects under C2S Programme for development of working 
prototypes of ASICs (Application-Specific Integrated Circuits), Systems/ SoCs (System-on-Chips), and IP (Intellectual 
Property) Core designs. 
113 organizations (including 100 academic institutions/ R&D organizations and 13 startups/ MSMEs) spread across 
the country are supported for implementation of R&D projects resulting into generation of ASICs (Application-Specific 
Integrated Circuits), Systems/ SoCs (System-on-Chips), and IP (Intellectual Property) Core designs thereby generating 
trained manpower in these areas. The details of these organizations are at https://c2s.gov.in/proposallist.jsp.
The ChipIN Centre has been setup at C-DAC Bangalore as one-stop centre for providing the following support to 
academic institutions/ R&D organizations and start-ups/ MSMEs across the country (Details at https://c2s.gov.in/
SupportCentre.jsp):
i.	
State-of-the-art EDA tools: access provided to 300 academic institutions under C2S Programme (State-wise 
details at  https://c2s.gov.in/EDA_Tool_Support.jsp ) 
ii.	
Multi-project Wafer (MPW) fabrication services at 180nm, SCL Mohali. 122 semiconductor chips indigenously 
designed by students and sent for fabrication at 180nm, SCL Mohali. Out of 122 designs, 56 designs have already 
been fabricated. Details at https://c2s.gov.in/MPW_Services.jsp
iii.	
Design and prototyping facility offering access of Field-programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA) to 100 
academic institutions (Details at https://c2s.gov.in/FPGA.jsp) enables institutions to undertake a wide range 
of projects from basic digital design to advanced applications involving AI/ML, video processing, hardware 
prototyping, etc
iv.	
Regular Trainings, Handholding and Mentorship: Total 250+ training sessions conducted by the ChipIN Centre 
in areas of VLSI design, Embedded System design & design fabrication in collaboration with semiconductor 
industry partners (Details at https://c2s.gov.in/Completed_Training.jsp).
VLSI SMART Lab Facility: VLSI SMART Lab Facility has been setup at NIELIT Calicut (with two labs having 100 
hardware system) to train about 1 Lakh candidates in 5 Years (20,000 candidates /year) in Hardware design including 
VLSI Design, Embedded hardware design, Board design, etc. through NSQF aligned Courses and by providing 
remote access of FPGA boards ported with SHAKTI/ VEGA Processors. Total of 71,000 engineers have been trained 
nationwide, via training programs conducted using the SMART Lab
7.4.8	 Indian Nanoelectronics Users Program -Idea to Innovation (INUP-i2i) 
The Indian Nanoelectronics Users’ Programme – Idea to Innovation (INUP-i2i), initiated in 2008 at the Centres of 
Excellence in Nanoelectronics (CENs) of IIT Bombay, IISc Bangalore, IIT Delhi, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Madras, and IIT 
Guwahati, aims to advance the concept of open national nano centers. The programme focuses on providing multi-level 
training, supporting R&D projects, and mentoring start-ups in the field of nanoelectronics.
Under INUP-i2i, 59 familiarization workshops, 46 hands-on training sessions, 41 industrial trainings, and 11 hackathons 
have been conducted, benefitting over 8,589 researchers and students and facilitating the completion of 584 R&D 
projects nationwide.
A major milestone under the initiative has been the development and NCVET approval of two standalone National 
Occupational Standards (NOSs) on Nanotechnology—
•	
Foundation Program on Nanoscience & Technology (NSQF Level 6, 60 hours) – NQR ID: 3809
•	
Advanced Program on Nanoscience & Technology (NSQF Level 6.5, 90 hours) – NQR ID: 3808


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 242
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
240
B. Hyderabad laboratory 
C-MET, Hyderabad, has evolved as a national hub for research and technology development in advanced materials, 
especially those critical to strategic and electronic applications. Recognizing the importance of self-reliance in critical raw 
materials (CRMs), rare earth elements (REEs), ultra-high purity (UHP) metals, and wide bandgap (WGB) semiconductors, 
C-MET Hyderabad has invested significantly in building comprehensive laboratory infrastructure, specialized R&D units, 
pilot-scale facilities, and state-of-the-art instrumentation. This combination of capabilities enables C-MET to undertake 
end-to-end development starting from processing of raw materials to fabrication and evaluation of functional devices, 
while supporting scale-up and transfer of technologies to user agencies and industry. C-MET Hyderabad laboratory 
embraces unique R&D facilities, one of its kinds in the country for purification of metals to 99.99999 % (7N grade). A 
state-of-the-art SiC single crystal growth facility has been established, achieving a significant milestone by successfully 
growing 2-inch diameter semi insulating 6H SiC boules. The facility is further equipped for the growth of large-diameter 
SiC single crystal boules up to 6 inches to cater to the demands of power electronics and strategic device applications.
One of the key differentiators of C-MET Hyderabad is its robust pilot-scale and production infrastructure that enables 
seamless translation of lab-scale research into industrial processes. Among the most strategic of these is the Hafnium 
(Hf) production plant, which has been established with an annual production capacity of 320kg. This facility, recognized 
as the sole establishment of its kind within India, is designed to extract high-purity hafnium metal from intermediate 
zirconium-hafnium feedstock through the application of solvent extraction and metallothermic reduction methodologies. 
The purified Hf metal is used in aerospace alloys for space applications and supplied directly to ISRO and other 
strategic sectors. The entire process is backed by in-house Q Acertification using various characterization techniques, 
making C-MET the sole supplier of aerospace-grade Hf.
C. Thrissur laboratory	
The focus of C-MET Thrissur is in the development of materials and devices encompassing Sensors and Actuators, 2D 
materials, Microwave materials, Energy materials and storage devices, piezo electric materials and Plasmonic materials 
for electronic applications. In addition, the two national programs being implemented are i) Centre of Excellence on IoT 
based sensors, and ii) India Innovation Centre for Graphene (IICG). CMET Thrissur has gained expertise to develop 
customised IIoT sensors and deployed them for field trials. It has championed the art of making multi stacked capacitors 
and actuators are catering to the requirement of strategic sectors. Thrissur laboratory also meeting requirement of 
health sector in the form point of care devices based on plasmonic sensors, thermal sensor based early warning cancer 
devices and indigenously developed ultrasound probe.
Various reputed organizations such as DRDO, ISRO and DAE institutions and other private industries/start-ups have 
joined hands with C-MET through Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) to facilitate collaborative activities. These 
meaningful associations exemplify C-MET’s dedication towards encouraging innovation, knowledge exchange, and 
progress in diverse fields through joint efforts.
9.3.2   Products developed by C-MET for different applications 
•	
3D printed pouch cell and coin cell
•	
3D design and printed package of POC 4 (Optical coupler for opto-electronic packaging) and POC 5 (Ring 
resonator)
•	
Carbide derived carbon (CDC)
•	
Polybutadiene based Substrate Integrated Waveguides (SIW) for microwave and millimetre wave circuit 
applications
•	
Tri-band composite NavIC Antenna


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 292
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
290
expertise for the rollout of customized skilling, upskilling, and reskilling programmes as per the specific needs of youths 
and industries.
NIELIT qualifications are widely accepted across the country. Owing to the quality, some of the NIELIT digital competency 
courses are linked with both promotion & recruitment by number of state governments viz; Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, 
Chandigarh, Daman & Diu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh.  Also, NIELIT is offering its CCC course free of 
cost in online mode as a knowledge product through its virtual academy.  The course is also available at 15+ Indian and 
International Language, accessible at https://nva.nielit.gov.in/ccc 
Since the year 2014, NIELIT has trained over 95 lakh candidates. Taking into the account advancement in IT and 
Electronics and emergence of disruptive technologies, NIELIT has been continuously upgrading its courses in emerging 
technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, IoT, Big Data, Cloud Computing, Robotics,3D Printing, Chip Design, 
Embedded Technologies, VLSI and related technologies. NIELIT is amongst the front-runners that have aligned 139 
Skill Oriented courses with National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) at different levels ranging from Level 2 
to 6.
NIELIT Centres at Aurangabad, Calicut, Kolkata have been identified as Technology Resource Centres to offer blended 
learning programmes under the Future Skills prime initiative which is being jointly conceived by MeitY and NASSCOM. 
The first IndiaAI Lab has been established at NIELIT Delhi and since then,  27 IndiaAI Labs have been established at 
NIELIT Centres. NIELIT plays a pivotal role in building a highly skilled semiconductor workforce through Specialized 
training programs & certifications in semiconductor design, fabrication, and packaging and establishing Centre of 
Excellences in Chip Design and related technologies.  NIELIT has also expertise in cyber skilling at various levels.
NIELIT Deemed to be University:
NIELIT achieved a significant milestone by being conferred the status of Deemed to be University (under distinct 
category) vide Gazette Notification No. 9-3/2023-U.3(A) dated 15 July 2024, published in Part-I, Section-1 of the Gazette 
of India with NIELIT Ropar (Punjab) as its main campus along-with 11 constituent units located at Aizawl, Agartala, 
Aurangabad, Calicut, Gorakhpur, Imphal, Kohima, Patna, Srinagar, Ajmer (Kekri) and Itanagar.  This recognition marks 
a major leap forward in the nation’s journey toward digital empowerment and inclusive education. Recognized under 
the UGC’s “distinct” category, the NIELIT Deemed to be University is the only university under MeitY, offering industry-
relevant undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral, and diploma programs in IT and Electronics.  The University focuses 
on Research, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship, Faculty and Staff Development programmes, and enhancing the 
infrastructure.  NIELIT Deemed to be University was inaugurated on 03.01.2025 at 12 locations and the inaugural event 
was jointly presided over by Shri Lakshman Prasad Acharya, Hon’ble Governor of Assam, Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw, 
Union Minister of Railways, Information & Broadcasting, and Electronics & Information Technology, and Dr. Himanta 
Biswa Sarma, Chief Minister of Assam, during a ceremony held in Guwahati.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 299
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
297
Under the project, setting up of DIR-V based SoC and Embedded System Design Labs & the installation of Synopsys, 
CADENCE and Mentor Graphics VLSI Design tools have been completed. Achievement as on 31.10.2024: - 
•	
DIR-V SoC and Embedded Design Labs established – Completed
•	
High-Level Design Document developed jointly with NIT & IIIT Trichy – Completed
•	
DIR-V Processor architecture familiarization and RTL analysis – Completed
•	
Edge AI Processor micro-architecture and low-level design prepared with NIT & IIIT Trichy – Completed
•	
EEG, EMG, ECG, and EOG sensor interfacing with OpenBCI Cyton board – Completed
•	
ADS1299-based bio-signal acquisition board for ZYNQ using SPI communication – Completed
• 
Sub-blocks for RISC-V CDAC VEGA Processor developed; preliminary NPU verification – Completed
•	
Component procurement for analog front-end PCB (EEG, ECG, EMG, EOG) – Ongoing
•	
Pre-processing algorithm design and development – Ongoing
•	
SPI interfacing with ZYNQ UltraScale ZCU104 FPGA board – Completed
• 
22 DRDO officials trained in PCB Design, Fabrication & Testing using C2S EDA tools – Completed
• 
Reviewing NPU RTL design and specifications to understand core functionality- Ongoing
9.8.3.16 Empowering Police Personnel and Government Officials of NE States through IT and Cyber Security 
Training
Project is sponsored by MeitY vide Administrative Approval No L-14011/7/2023-HRD, dated 26-02-2024  with the 
financial support of Rs. 2245.47 Lakhs over a period of three (3) years. The Project is being implemented by NIELIT 
Kohima with the objective to train Police Personnel and Government Officials of NE States through IT and Cyber 
Security Training through a comprehensive training program with setting up IT cum Security labs equipped with the 
latest hardware and software at different police headquarters and selected districts in NE States. Under the project, a 
total of  8,714 Police personnel & Govt. officials have been trained out of the assigned target of  18,660.
9.8.3.17  Electronics & ICT Academy Scheme, Phase-II 
Project is sponsored by MeitY vide Administrative Approval No L-14011/1/2024-HRD, dated 26-04-2024  with the 
financial support of  Rs. 9468.82 Lakh over a period of five (5) years. The Project is being implemented by NIELIT 
Aurangabad, NIELIT Calicut, NIELIT Gorakhpur along with 11 other institutes ( IITs, CDACs & NITs etc.). The objective 
of the project is to conduct faculty/mentor training through specialized Faculty Development Programs (FDPs) with the 
vision of MeitY by promoting emerging areas of technology and other high priority areas that are pillars of both, the 
“Make in India” and the “Digital India” programmes in ITI/Polytechnic. The target of the NIELITs is to train 7500 faculties 
& also to develop 60 Faculty Development Programs (FDPs) on emerging Technologies. A total of 3,029 faculties have 
been trained .
9.8.3.18 Capacity Building for human resource development in Unmanned Aircraft System (Drone and related 
Technology) : 
Project is sponsored by MeitY vide Administrative Approval No L-14011/29/2021-HRD, dated 11.07.2022  with the 
financial support of  Rs. 89.87 Crore over a period of five (5) years. The Project is being implemented by NIELIT 
Aurangabad, NIELIT Bhubaneswar, NIELIT Calicut, NIELIT Imphal & NIELIT J&K. The objective of the project is to 
leverage collaborative activities in human resource development through capacity building in education and training in 
the area of Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS). Under the project, 5425 Candidates have been trained as against the 
target of 8100.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 301
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Attached Offices and Societies
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
299
9.8.3.24 Design and development of Ultrasonic transducer probes for medical imaging
Project is sponsored by MeitY vide administrative approval F. No. 1(3)/2019-ME&HI, dt-13.08.2021. The primary 
objectives of the project is to Design of ultrasound probes, Development of piezoelectric Transducer, Development 
of backing and matching Layers, Fabrication of transducer probes, Validation and clinical trials of developed Probes. 
Achievement so far is as under: 
•	
Design and development of Ultrasonic Probe Test jig – Completed
•	
Development of a test setup for testing the transducer probe elements (Open/Short test - capacitance based) and 
develop GUI for displaying the test- Completed
•	
Testing and evaluation of the Ultrasound probe prototype developed by C-MET Trissur using the Research 
platform available at NIELIT Calicut - The IEC and other testing of the developed probe is Under progress.
•	
Probe development completed.
•	
The IEC and other testing of the developed probe is Under progress.
•	
After the testing probe clinical trials to be completed.
9.8.3.25  Indigenous state-of-the-art FPGA- based ultrasound beam former modules for Affordable Ultrasound 
scanners: A Proof-of-concept scanner development 
Project has been approved by Ministry of Science & Technology Department of Biotechnology vide administrative 
approval No BT/PR49659/MED/32/893/2023 Dated 21.03.2024. The primary objectives of the project proposal to VLSI 
Architecture design for identified state-of-the-art algorithm, Design and implementation of Ultrasound Beamforming 
Accelerator on FPGA and Verification of the implementation results. Achievement so far is as under:
•	
VLSI and system architecture designed for state-of-the-art ultrasound beamforming algorithms.
• 
FPGA emulation of ultrasound beamformer core completed with performance analysis and verification.
•	
CFB-DAS and DB-SAT beamforming architectures developed for XC7A100T and XCZU5EG (PYNQ-ZU) 
FPGAs.
•	
CFB-DAS beamformer implemented and tested on XCZU5EG in two modes (real-time and precomputed 
delay).
•	
Integration of CFB-DAS and DB-SAT beamformers with data acquisition setup – In progress.
•	
initiated by CMET Thrissur
9.8.3.26 Smart Bioinformatics Ecosystem:Leveraging AI and Cloud Technology for  Innovation and  Capacity 
Building in Bioinformatics.
Project is sponsored by MeitY vide Administrative Approval L-14011/14/2025-HRD dated 19/08/2025 with Financial 
Support of Rs. 18.04 Crore over a period of three (03) Years. Project has been Implemented by NIELIT, Guwahati with 
a target to train 23430 candidates. Under the project, a total of 348 candidates have been trained.
9.8.3.27 SAMARTH - Students Advancing Mindsets in AI, Robotics, Technology, and Digital Hardware.
Project is sponsored by MeitY vide Administrative Approval L-14011/12/2025-HRD dated 01/09/2025 with Financial 
Support of Rs. 50.50 Crore over a period of three (03) Years. Project has been Implemented by NIELIT, Kohima with a 
target to train 153400 candidates. Under the project, a total of 1109 candidates have been trained.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 336
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Matters
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
334
10.1.5	 Official Language Inspection by the Parliamentary Committee on Official Language
To analyse the status of implementation of the Official Language Policy in the offices under the administrative control 
of the Ministry, the Hon’ble Parliamentary Committee on Official Language conducted inspections of STPI, Chennai; 
ETDC, Chennai; NIELIT, Kozhikode; C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram; ERTL (South), Thiruvananthapuram; NIC, Punjab 
Circle, Chandigarh; C-DAC, Mohali; ETDC, Mohali; NIELIT, Kurukshetra; STPI, Mohali; STPI, Pune; C-MET, Pune; 
ETDC, Pune; EITL, Mumbai; SAMEER, Mumbai; C-DAC, Jasola, New Delhi; STPI, Bhopal; BISAG-N, Gandhinagar; 
ERTL (East), Kolkata; STPI, Kolkata , NIC Chhattisgarh  State Centre, Raipur from January 2025 to December 2025. 
It is noteworthy that the implementation of the Official Language Policy was found satisfactory in about 80% of the 
inspected offices and they were awarded satisfactory certificates by the Committee.
10.1.6	 Ministry’s website
Keeping pace with the revolutionary changes taking place in the field of information technology, the website of the 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has been designed. It has been integrated with the indigenously 
developed Bhashini tool through which the website of the Ministry can be accessed in Hindi as well as in the 22 
Indian languages recognized in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. The Bhashini tool, a result of the information 
technology revolution and far-reaching initiatives like Make in India, is certainly proving to be a powerful tool in realizing 
the vision of Digital India. Bhashini provides every language speaker in India with the opportunity to connect with every 
initiative and innovation in the country. The content on the website is updated periodically.
10.1.7	 Innovative efforts made to promote interest in Hindi
The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology is concerned with technical work. Therefore, some innovative 
efforts have been made to progressively increase the use of Hindi in the Ministry’s work. The main ones are as follows:
• 
The Ministry has allocated funds for the purchase of Hindi books, as directed by the Department of Official 
Language. This includes not only socially useful readable books but also important books on contemporary 
technical topics.
• 
As per the orders of the Department of Official Language, an incentive scheme for noting/drafting is also being 
run in the Ministry.
• 
To remove the difficulties faced by non-Hindi speaking personnel in working in Hindi language, three programmes 
have been sanctioned from the Ministry under the Hindi Teaching Scheme being run by the Central Hindi Training 
Institute. Three (03) non-Hindi speaking officers have been enrolled for training. This includes two (02) officers 
enrolled for the Prabodh course and one (01) officer enrolled for the Praveen course. 
• 
To maintain interest in reading and writing in the Hindi language and to provide a platform for the officers of the 
Ministry and its subordinate offices to express their creative abilities, the Ministry is soon going to publish the 
upcoming issue of its annual in-house magazine ‘Spandan’. The Official Language section has received several 
articles written originally in Hindi by scientific officers with creative interests, on emerging technologies and the 
proofreading of these articles is currently underway.
• 
Under an innovative initiative by the Semiconductor Laboratory, Mohali—an office under the Ministry—an Official 
Language exhibition was organized under the Ministry’s guidance during the Golden Jubilee Celebrations of 
the Department of Official Language held at Bharat Mandapam, New Delhi, as well as during the Hindi Day 
celebrations and the 5th All India Official Language Conference held in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Through this 
exhibition, the Laboratory not only expressed its commitment to the implementation of the Official Language 
Policy but also informed the large gathering of people about the process of indigenizing important and strategically 
significant products such as semiconductor wafer fabs being developed in the national interest. To ensure 
better implementation of the Official Language Policy, the honourable Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah, awarded 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 337
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Matters
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
335
the Laboratory, and the Honourable Minister of Law and Justice, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, also released one of 
their books written originally in Hindi on semiconductor technology.
10.1.8	 Organisation of Hindi Fortnight
To ensure the progressive use of Hindi in official work, to create a positive environment and to increase the interest of 
officers/employees in Hindi in official work, a Hindi fortnight was organized in the Ministry from September 1, 2025 to 
September 15, 2025. During the fortnight, five Hindi competitions were organized: Hindi Essay Writing Competition, 
Hindi Slogan Writing Competition, Hindi Note and Drafting Competition, Online/Offline Hindi Quiz Competition,  and 
Hindi Poetry Writing/Reciting Competition. A large number of officers and employees of the Ministry enthusiastically 
participated in these competitions. Successful participants in the competitions were awarded first, second, third, and 
two consolation prizes.
10.1.9	 Organisation of Hindi workshops
To remove the hesitation of officers and employees towards conducting official work in Hindi and to promote the use of 
Official Language Hindi in official work during the year, the following three (03) Hindi Workshops were organized under 
the chairmanship of Group Head (Official Language):
•	
Workshop on ‘Bhashini’ developed by the Ministry: Calendar Year 2025 In the first quarter, a workshop was 
held on the Ministry’s translation tool, “Bhashini”. Mr. Abhitabh Nag, Chief Operating Officer of the Digital India 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 340
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Matters
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
338
citizen-engagement   
10.5 	Information & Documentation Centre (Library)
This Ministry has a spacious well-planned Library viz Information and Documentation Centre (I&DC), with an inventory 
of books, journals, magazines, annual reports and newspapers. It uses RFID based Library Management System 
to manage acquisition, cataloguing and circulation, of books/journals/magazines. I&DC also provides various other 
services like Inter-Library loan facility to the officials of the Ministry through DELNET (Developing Library Network) and 
arranges books/journals/magazines/articles from libraries of various other organizations. Services are also provided to 
the retired officials of the Ministry and trainees who undertake projects in the Ministry.
The Information & Documentation Centre possesses approximately 20,889/- books on various subject including 
Electronics, Computer, IT, Computer Languages, Fiction, Artificial Intelligence & Cyber Security. I&DC has books on 
Hindi and English literature also. I&DC procures on an average 17 books and approximately 34 Journals (Print) per 
annum and Skillsoft E-books services (Book 24x7) is also made available to the authorized users.
The Ministry is spearheading an Intra-Ministerial initiative viz the Library Consortium, Ministry of Electronics & Information 
Technology (MCIT). Consortium of the Ministry (MCIT Consortium) comprises the users from the National Informatics 
Centre (NIC), C-DAC, NIELIT, SAMEER, C-MET, STQC Directorate, STPI, ERNET India, C-DOT. The Ministry provides 
on-line access to various e-resources i.e. IEEE Journals/Transactions/Proceedings, IEE Journals/Proceedings, ACM 
Digital Library and ISO Standards to its users through MCIT Library Consortium. I&DC also provides journals/magazines/
articles of 30 international publishers through ONOS platform.
I&DC provides Gartner Research and Advisory Services which is useful e-resource consists of reliable global trends & 
best practices and latest reports on digital technologies.
I&DC also provides “Bloomberg Terminal Services”. The Bloomberg Terminal service is a global, 24-hour a day, 
financial information network providing real-time and historical pricing, indicative and fundamental data, and customized 
analytics. Other features include on-demand print and multimedia news and research, extensive electronic-trading 
capabilities, and a superior communications platform.
10.6	 Parliament Section
In the Year 2025 the Budget Session, Monsoon Session and Winter Session of the Parliament  has been  held. During 
these Sessions 238 number of Parliament Questions in Lok Sabha (14 Starred & 224 Unstarred) and 157 number of 
Parliament Questions in Rajya Sabha (17 Starred & 140 Unstarred) were admitted and handled by the Parliament 
Section. These were mainly related to Development of IT Hub, Financial Cyber Crime, Cert-In, Development of Additive 
Manufacturing (3D Printing) in India, National Knowledge Network(NKN), Global Outage, Incentive for Semiconductor 
and display ecosystem, Digital India Bill, Uniform Fiscal Support, Robotic Process Automation Lab, Grievance Redressal 
By Social Media Intermediaries, Visveswaraya Ph.D. Scheme, Development of Metaverse, Big Tech companies, 
Digital Public Infrastructure and AI, PMGDISHA, Electronic Manufacturing Companies, Research and Development, 
Online Gamers, Cyber Security Incidents, Progress of Digital India Programme, Future Skills Prime Programme, Digital 
copyright infringement by online chatbots, Leakage of personal data on Dark Web, Manufacturing of Mobile Phone, 
Implementation of Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, TIDE 2.0 scheme, Electricity supply to data centres, Tariff 
rationalisation for smart phone manufacturing, Action against Data Breaches, Semiconductor Industry, Technological 
expertise for blockchain effectiveness for MSMEs, Digital Personal Data Protection Act (DPDPA), Legislation/Rules for 
Online Gaming and Online Gambling, Adoption and Development of Artificial   Intelligence under PPP Model, Amendment 
in IT Act to regulate AI, Support to Tech-Startup, Semiconductor chip fabrication, Digital Literacy and Skill Development, 
Greenfield Semiconductor Fab, Personal Data Mining and PhishingIt, Deepfake, Digital Public Infrastructure, Scheme 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 345
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Matters
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
343
term commitment to building accessible, safe, and user-friendly digital ecosystems for women across diverse socio-
economic and regional contexts.
MeitY’s Attached Offices, autonomous societies, Section 8 companies, and companies registered under the Companies 
Act, 1956 operationalise this vision through targeted interventions such as women-centric skilling programmes, 
inclusive datasets, AI-enabled solutions, cybersecurity training, and support for women-led startups. These efforts 
are complemented by initiatives that enhance market access, improve digital safety, promote language accessibility, 
and expand entrepreneurial opportunities for women. Collectively, these outcomes underline MeitY’s role in promoting 
a gender-responsive, future-ready digital economy where women not only participate but also lead in the country’s 
innovation and technology landscape.
10.8.1.1 Gender Initiatives Across the divisions
R&D and Technology Development
Gender inclusion is being actively promoted in MeitY’s R&D ecosystem through its Centres of Excellence and R&D 
institutions, which support women researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs across strategic technology domains. 
Gender-sensitive design principles are being incorporated in the development of new technologies, including AI-
based video analytics, IoT-enabled city infrastructure, and digital surveillance systems for safe cities. MeitY’s R&D 
investments in quantum communication and cybersecurity are enhancing safety in digital and communication systems 
by contributing to safer and more resilient communication channels, which are critical in addressing digital safety 
challenges faced by women.
C-DAC’s TETRA Network (CTN), an indigenous system used for emergency and mission-critical communication, is 
strengthening safety and operational efficiency for women personnel working in police services, disaster response, and 
healthcare sectors.
Cyberlaw, Cybersecurity and Online Safety
The Cyber Shakti initiative is equipping women government officials with the competencies required to serve as Chief 
Information Security Officers (CISOs) or Deputy CISOs. The Women innovators and women-led cybersecurity startups 
are being actively encouraged to participate in the national Cyber Security Grand Challenge (CSGC 2.0). Nearly 40% of 
the funds allocated under cyber law initiatives support projects focused on improving the safety of women and children 
online. 
The Cyber Shikshaa Programme is a flagship initiative focused on training women in cybersecurity with the objective of 
enhancing employability and increasing women’s representation in the cybersecurity workforce.
Various other key initiatives are as follows. 
•	
Strengthening of the Legal and Policy Framework
Over the last decade, India has significantly strengthened its cyber law ecosystem through the Information Technology 
Act, 2000, along with the rules framed thereunder and subsequent amendments, as well as the Digital Personal 
Data Protection Act, 2023 and the rules made thereunder. These legislative frameworks address emerging digital 
harms, including obscenity, sexually explicit content, non-consensual sharing of intimate images, online trolling and 
harassment, violation of bodily privacy, cyberstalking, synthetic and manipulated content including AI-generated or AI-
altered content such as deepfakes, and impersonation and identity-based misuse.
Key reforms under these frameworks include time-bound content removal obligations, enhanced due diligence 
requirements for intermediaries, institutionalised grievance redressal mechanisms, and platform accountability 
measures. These reforms aim to prevent misuse of online platforms and enhance the safety of users, particularly 
women, in the digital ecosystem.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAGE 349
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annexure
REPORT
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India
Annual
2025-2026
347
Annexure
Approval of Union Cabinet for extension of the Digital India Programme for the duration of 15th Finance 
Commission
The Government had launched the DIP in July 2015 with three key vision areas, namely digital infrastructure as a core 
utility to every citizen, governance and services on demand, and digital empowerment of citizens. The overall goal is to 
ensure that digital technologies improve the life of every citizen, expand India’s digital economy, and create investment 
and employment opportunities. It has also helped in the delivery of services directly to beneficiaries in a transparent 
manner. In the process, India has emerged as one of the pre-eminent nations of the world to use technology to 
transform the lives of its citizens.
The Government, in August 2023, approved the extension of the DIP with a total outlay of Rs 14,903.25 Crore for the 
period of 15th Finance Commission i.e., 2021-22 to 2025-26.
The extension of the programme has the following major benefits:
•	
16.66 lakh+ candidates enrolled/trained in various courses under the Future Skills PRIME Programme.
•	
Under the awareness component of Information Security & Education Awareness Phase (ISEA) Programme, 
2,552 awareness workshops on Information Security have been organized through direct/virtual mode for school 
& colleges students, teachers, faculty, Government personnel, general user 5,71,544 participants and around 10 
crore estimated beneficiaries have been covered through indirect mode.
•	
At present, about 2390 Central and State Govt. services are available on UMANG platform from 240 departments 
of Central and State Government of 29 States/UTs and many more are continuously being on-boarded.
•	
38 supercomputers have been deployed under the National Super Computer Mission.
•	
Bhashini, the AI-enabled multi-language translation tool, currently supports 36+ languages for text translation, 
22+ languages for voice, and hosts 1.5 million–term multilingual glossary.
•	
Modernisation of the NKN under which 1869 links have been extended to institutions.
•	
DigiLocker launched EntityLocker — a dedicated digital locker for organizations, institutions, and government 
entities. EntityLocker has onboarded 40,739 entities and 374 issuers marking a transformative step in institutional 
document management.
•	
The GENESIS (Gen-Next Support for Innovative Startups) scheme envisages scaling up about 1,600 
technology startups to discover, nurture and grow technology startups. Under the scheme, a total of 253 startups 
has been supported till now
New initiatives in the area of cyber security including the development of tools and integration of more than 200 sites 
with the National Cyber Coordination Centre
The 16th Finance Commission (XVIFC) was constituted under Article 280 of the Indian Constitution to recommend 
fiscal transfers between the Union and States for the 2026-2031 period. The XVIFC’s recommendations are crucial 
for India’s fiscal federalism, guiding financial resource allocation and addressing contemporary economic challenges, 
playing a vital role in equitable development across states. 
-I
